Slurm Workload Manager 
SchedMD 
 
Navigation
Slurm Workload Manager
Version 25.05
About
Overview 
Release Notes 
Using
Documentation 
FAQ 
Publications 
Installing
Download 
Related Software 
Installation Guide 
Getting Help
Mailing Lists 
Support and Training 
Troubleshooting 
Hierarchical Resource (HRES) Scheduling
Overview
Hierarchical Resources (HRES) were added in Slurm 25.05 in a Beta state. While in beta, the configuration file format and other aspects of this feature may undergo substantial changes in future versions and require major changes to avoid errors. Sites that utilize this feature while in a beta state should pay particularly close attention to changes noted in RELEASE_NOTES and the CHANGELOGs when upgrading.
Hierarchical Resources allow for license-like resources to be defined as part of independent hierarchical topologies and associated with specific nodes. Jobs may request any integer count of that resource. Multiple resources may be defined in the configuration (in a resources.yaml file), and will use independently defined hierarchies.
Although these hierarchical topologies have some similarities to network topologies, the definitions for each are completely separate.
Planning Modes
Two modes of resource planning are provided. In either case, a layer may be defined with a count of zero or infinite (count: -1) resources, with the impact of this depending on the mode used.
Mode 1
In Mode 1, sufficient resources are only required on one layer that overlaps with job allocation. In many cases only a single level is needed. However, multiple levels may be defined if some additional flexibility in where resources are used is preferred, as described in the example below.
A layer with a zero count of a resource will have no impact on scheduling. Since that layer will never satisfy the request, it will never alter the calculated list of nodes eligible to run a given job. It would be semantically equivalent to removing that layer definition.
A layer with an infinite count of a resource will the always allow a new job allocation to succeed. Unless prevented due to other requirements, jobs will be able to execute immediately.
For example, consider the natural resource defined in the example resources.yaml file below. A job that requests this resource and is allocated node[01-04] will pull from the pool of 100 available to node[01-16]. With a count of 50 specified at the higher level (node[01-32]), they can be allocated in addition to the resources specified in each group of 16. That is, 100 each would be available to each group of 16, and 50 more would be available on any of them, for a total of 250 of this resource.
Mode 2
In Mode 2, sufficient resources must be available on all layers on all levels that overlap with job allocation. Note that scheduling stalls are possible if higher levels do not make enough resources available.
A layer with a zero count of a resource will have a significant impact on scheduling. All nodes underneath that layer would never be able to satisfy the allocation constraints. This could be used to mark that resource unavailable for a specific portion of the cluster, e.g., for hardware maintenance, without altering the individual lower-layer resource counts.
A layer with an infinite count of a resource will have no impact on scheduling. Since that layer will always satisfy the request, it will never constrain execution and would be semantically equivalent to removing that layer definition.
For example, consider the flat resource defined in the example resources.yaml file below. A job that requests this resource and is allocated node[01-04] will pull from all levels that include those nodes. So it would pull from the 12 available on node[01-08], from the 16 available on node[01-16], and from the 24 available on node[01-32]. Since the highest level only contains 24, that is the maximum that can be allocated, even though a larger total is available on lower levels. This example allows a fixed set of resources to have some flexibility in where they are used.
Limitations
The resource counts cannot be dynamically changed; all changes must be made through resources.yaml and applied with a restart or reconfigure 
Dynamic nodes are not supported 
This implementation is in a beta state (see overview) 
Resource names defined through the hierarchical resources configuration must not conflict with any cluster licenses 
Examples
After defining a resource hierarchy in resources.yaml (see below for example), you can interact with these resources in several ways, using the syntax already used for licenses:
View HRES
scontrol show licenseReserve HRES 
scontrol create reservation account=root licenses=natural(node[01-016]):30,flat(node[09-12]):4,flat(node[29-32]):2Note that the layer must be specified for each reserved HRES, identified by the node list present available through that layer 
Request HRES on a job 
sbatch --license=flat:2,natural:1 my_script.shresources.yaml
---
- resource: flat
  mode: MODE_2
  layers:
    - nodes:			# highest level
        - "node[01-32]"
      count: 24
    - nodes:			# middle levels
        - "node[01-16]"
      count: 16
    - nodes:
        - "node[17-32]"
      count: 16
    - nodes:			# lowest levels
        - "node[01-08]"
      count: 12
    - nodes:
        - "node[09-16]"
      count: 12
    - nodes:
        - "node[17-24]"
      count: 12
    - nodes:
        - "node[25-32]"
      count: 12
- resource: natural
  mode: MODE_1
  layers:
    - nodes:			# highest level
        - "node[01-32]"
      count: 50
    - nodes:			# lowest levels
        - "node[01-16]"
      count: 100
    - nodes:
        - "node[17-32]"
      count: 100

Last modified 26 May 2025
