Slurm Workload Manager 
SchedMD 
 
Navigation
Slurm Workload Manager
Version 25.05
About
Overview 
Release Notes 
Using
Documentation 
FAQ 
Publications 
Installing
Download 
Related Software 
Installation Guide 
Getting Help
Mailing Lists 
Support and Training 
Troubleshooting 
Workload Characterization Key (WCKey) Management
A WCKey is an orthogonal way to do accounting against possibly unrelated accounts. This can be useful where users from different accounts are all working on the same project. 
slurm(dbd).conf settings 
Including "WCKey" in your AccountingStorageEnforce option in your slurm.conf file will enforce WCKeys per job. This means only jobs with valid WCKeys (WCKeys previously added through sacctmgr) will be allowed to run. 
If you wish to track the value of a jobs WCKey you must set the TrackWCKey option in both the slurm.conf as well as the slurmdbd.conf files. This will assure the WCKey is tracked on each job. If you set "WCKey" in your AccountingStorageEnforce line TrackWCKey is set automatically, it still needs to be added to your slurmdbd.conf file though. 
sbatch/salloc/srun
Each submitting tool has the --wckey= option that can set the WCKey for a job. [SBATCH|SALLOC|SLURM]_WCKEY can also be set in the environment to set the WCKey. If no WCKey is given the WCKey for the job will be set to the users default WCKey for the cluster, which can be set up with sacctmgr. Also if no WCKey is specified the accounting record is appended with a '*' to signify the WCKey was not specified. This is useful for a manager to determine if a user is specifying their WCKey or not. 
sacct
Sacct can be used to view the WCKey by adding "wckey" to the --format option. You can also single out jobs by using the --wckeys= option which would only send information about jobs that ran with specific WCKeys. 
sacctmgr
Sacctmgr is used to manage WCKeys. You can add and remove WCKeys from users or list them. 
You add a user to a WCKey much like you do an account, only the WCKey doesn't need to be created before hand. i.e. 
sacctmgr add user da wckey=secret_project
You can remove them from a WCKey in the same fashion. 
sacctmgr del user da wckey=secret_project
To alter the users default WCKey you can run a line like 
sacctmgr mod user da cluster=snowflake set defaultwckey=secret_project
Which will change the default WCKey for user "da" on cluster "snowflake" to be "secret_project". If you want this for all clusters just remove the cluster= option. 
sreport
Information about reports available for WCKeys can be found on the sreport manpage. 
Last modified 14 November 2014
