Slurm Workload Manager 
SchedMD 
 
Navigation
Slurm Workload Manager
Version 25.05
About
Overview 
Release Notes 
Using
Documentation 
FAQ 
Publications 
Installing
Download 
Related Software 
Installation Guide 
Getting Help
Mailing Lists 
Support and Training 
Troubleshooting 
Release Notes for Slurm 25.05
Upgrading
Slurm 25.05 supports upgrading directly from 24.11, 24.05, and 23.11.
See the Upgrade Guide for further details.
Highlights
Optional support for TLS encryption for all Slurm RPC traffic. 
Support for defining multiple topologies which can be applied to specific partitions. 
Support for tracking and allocating hierarchical resources (beta). 
Dynamic nodes can be dynamically added to the network topologies. 
Added support for an OR operator in license requests. 
sacctmgr - Add support for dumping and loading QOSes. 
slurmrestd - Add support for TLS encryption to listening sockets. 
srun - Add new --wait-for-children option to keep the step running until all launched processes have exited (cgroup/v2 only). 
topology/block - Permit gaps within the block definitions. 
jobcomp/kafka - New option to send job information at job start in addition to job completion. 
switch/hpe_slingshot - Support for > 252 ranks per node. 
switch/hpe_slingshot - Support for mTLS authentication to the fabric manager. 
Configuration Changes
Autodetect the available cpus, and automatically set the connection management thread pool size to 2x that value. The “conmgr_threads” settings can be used to override this. 
jobcomp/elasticsearch and jobcomp/kafka - Stop sending the batch script as part of the message by default. A new “send_script” option has been added if the batch script should be sent. 
REST API Changes
Slurm OpenAPI Plugin Release Notes
Added new v0.0.43 API endpoints. 
Deprecated v0.0.40 API endpoints (will be removed in Slurm 25.11). 
Added new endpoint for creating reservations. 
Deprecations and Removals
Removed support for “FrontEnd” mode of operation. (Required compilation with “–enable-front-end”.) 
Marked cgroup/v1 support as deprecated. 
