To install and run LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition, download and install the LSF License Scheduler packages. Follow any speciﬁc steps for
installing and conﬁguring LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition instead of Standard Edition.
LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition is assumed in all LSF License Scheduler documentation unless it is explicitly stated as describing Basic
Edition.
Install IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler
The following topics summarize the installation procedures for IBM® Spectrum LSF License Scheduler
Installing LSF License Scheduler involves the following steps:
1. Get the entitlement ﬁle (LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition only).
2. Run the installation program.
Note: For detailed installation steps, please refer to Install License Scheduler.
Run the LSF License Scheduler installation
See Using IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler for installation and conﬁguration steps.
IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center 10.1
IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center provides a web-based user interface for job submission, job and LSF host monitoring, and reporting. LSF
License Scheduler monitoring and reporting is now included in IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center.
You must install LSF before you install IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center. See Installing IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center for installation and
conﬁguration steps.
Release notes for IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler Version 10.1
Read this document to ﬁnd out what's new in IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler Version 10.1.
What's new in IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
 Review the new and changed behavior for each version of LSF Session Scheduler.
What’s new in IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler Version 10.1.0 Fix Pack 15
 The following topics summarize the new and changed behavior in LSF Session Scheduler 10.1 Fix Pack 15.
What's new in IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
Review the new and changed behavior for each version of LSF Session Scheduler.
What’s new in IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler Version 10.1.0 Fix
Pack 15
The following topics summarize the new and changed behavior in LSF Session Scheduler 10.1 Fix Pack 15.
Release date: May 2025
LSF Session Scheduler 10.1 Fix Pack 15 provides ﬁxes to address issues tracked between 8 May 2021 and 12 February 2025. It also contains some
solution enhancements. For a full list and more details, refer to the README ﬁle for Fix Pack 15.
You can obtain Fix Pack 15 from IBM Fix Central.
IBM Spectrum LSF quick reference
Quick reference to LSF commands, daemons, conﬁguration ﬁles, log ﬁles, and important cluster conﬁguration parameters.
154    IBM Spectrum LSF

Sample UNIX and Linux installation directories
Daemon error log ﬁles
Daemon error log ﬁles are stored in the directory that is deﬁned by LSF_LOGDIR in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
LSF base system daemon log ﬁlesLSF batch system daemon log ﬁles
pim.log.host_name mbatchd.log.host_name
res.log.host_name sbatchd.log.host_name
lim.log.host_name mbschd.log.host_name
If the EGO_LOGDIR parameter is deﬁned in the ego.conf ﬁle, the lim.log.host_name ﬁle is stored in the directory that is deﬁned by the EGO_LOGDIR
parameter.
Conﬁguration ﬁles
The lsf.conf, lsf.shared, and lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁles are located in the directory that is speciﬁed by the LSF_CONFDIR parameter in the lsf.conf
ﬁle.
The lsb.params, lsb.queues, lsb.modules, and lsb.resources ﬁles are located in the LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/ directory.
File Description
install.conﬁg Options for LSF installation and conﬁguration
lsf.conf Generic environment conﬁguration ﬁle that describes the conﬁguration and operation of the cluster
lsf.shared Deﬁnition ﬁle that is shared by all clusters. Used to deﬁne cluster name, host types, host models, and site-deﬁned
resources
IBM Spectrum LSF 155

File Description
lsf.cluster.cluster_nam
eCluster conﬁguration ﬁles that are used to deﬁne hosts, administrators, and locality of site-deﬁned shared resources
lsb.applications Deﬁnes application proﬁles to deﬁne common parameters for the same types of jobs
lsb.params Conﬁgures LSF batch parameters
lsb.queues Batch queue conﬁguration ﬁle
lsb.resources Conﬁgures resource allocation limits, exports, and resource usage limits
lsb.serviceclasses Deﬁnes service-level agreements (SLAs) in an LSF cluster as service classes, which deﬁne the properties of the SLA
lsb.users Conﬁgures user groups, hierarchical fair share for users and user groups, and job slot limits for users and user groups
Cluster conﬁguration parameters in the lsf.conf ﬁle
Parameter Description UNIX Default
LSF_BINDIR Directory containing LSF user commands, which are shared by all hosts of the same type LSF_TOP/version/OStyp
e/bin
LSF_CONFDIR Directory for all LSF conﬁguration ﬁles LSF_TOP/conf
LSF_ENVDIR Directory containing the lsf.conf ﬁle. Must be owned by root. /etc (if LSF_CONFDIR is
not deﬁned)
LSF_INCLUDEDI
RDirectory containing LSF API header ﬁles lsf.h and lsbatch.h LSF_TOP/version/includ
e
LSF_LIBDIR LSF libraries, which are shared by all hosts of the same type LSF_TOP/version/OStyp
e/lib
LSF_LOGDIR (Optional) Directory for LSF daemon logs. Must be owned by root. /tmp
LSF_LOG_MASKLogging level of error messages from LSF commands LOG_WARNING
LSF_MANDIR Directory containing LSF man pages LSF_TOP/version/man
LSF_MISC Sample C programs and shell scripts, and a template for an external LIM (elim) LSF_TOP/version/misc
LSF_SERVERDIRDirectory for all server binary ﬁles and shell scripts, and external executable ﬁles that are started by
LSF daemons, must be owned by root, and shared by all hosts of the same typeLSF_TOP/version/OStyp
e/etc
LSF_TOP Top-level installation directory. The path to LSF_TOP must be shared and accessible to all hosts in the
cluster. It cannot be the root directory (/).Not deﬁned
Required for installation
LSB_CONFDIR Directory for LSF Batch conﬁguration directories, containing user and host lists, operation parameters,
and batch queuesLSF_CONFDIR/lsbatch
LSF_LIVE_CONF
DIRDirectory for LSF live reconﬁguration directories that are written by the bconf command. LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster
_name/live_confdir
LSF_SHAREDIR Directory for LSF batch job history and accounting log ﬁles for each cluster, must be owned by primary
LSF administratorLSF_TOP/work
LSF_LIM_PORT TCP service port that is used for communication with the lim daemon 7879
LSF_RES_PORT TCP service port that is used for communication with the res daemon 6878
LSF_MBD_PORTTCP service port that is used for communication with the mbatchd daemon 6881
LSF_SBD_PORT TCP service port that is used for communication with the sbatchd daemon 6882
Administration and accounting commands
Only LSF administrators and root users can use these commands.
Command Description
lsadmin LSF administrator tool to control the operation of the LIM and RES daemons in an LSF cluster, lsadmin help shows all
subcommands
lsﬁnstall Install LSF with the install.conﬁg input ﬁle
lsfrestart Restart the LSF daemons on all hosts in the local cluster
lsfshutdown Shut down the LSF daemons on all hosts in the local cluster
lsfstartup Start the LSF daemons on all hosts in the local cluster
badmin LSF administrative tool to control the operation of the LSF batch system (sbatchd, mbatchd, hosts, and queues) badmin help
shows all subcommands
bconf Changes LSF conﬁguration in active memory
Daemons
Daemon Name Description
156    IBM Spectrum LSF

Daemon Name Description
lim Load Information Manager (LIM): collects load and resource information about all server hosts in the cluster and provides host
selection services to applications through LSLIB. LIM maintains information on static system resources and dynamic load
indexes
mbatchd Management Batch Daemon (MBD): accepts and holds all batch jobs. MBD periodically checks load indexes on all server hosts by
contacting the management host LIM.
mbschd Management Batch Scheduler Daemon: performs the scheduling functions of LSF and sends job scheduling decisions to MBD for
dispatch. Runs on the LSF management host
sbatchd Server Batch Daemon (SBD): accepts job execution requests from MBD, and monitors the progress of jobs. Controls job
execution, enforces batch policies, reports job status to MBD, and starts MBD.
pim Process Information Manager (PIM): monitors resources that are used by submitted jobs while they are running. PIM is used to
enforce resource limits and load thresholds, and for fair share scheduling
res Remote Execution Server (RES): accepts remote execution requests from all load-sharing applications and handles I/O on the
remote host for load sharing processes.
User commands
View information about your cluster.
Command Description
bhosts Displays hosts and their static and dynamic resources
blimits Displays information about resource allocation limits of running jobs
bparams Displays information about tunable batch system parameters
bqueues Displays information about batch queues
busers Displays information about users and user groups
lshosts Displays hosts and their static resource information
lsid Displays the current LSF version number, cluster name, and management host name
lsinfo Displays load-sharing conﬁguration information
lsload Displays dynamic load indexes for hosts
Monitor jobs and tasks.
Command Description
bacct Reports accounting statistics on completed LSF jobs
bapp Displays information about jobs that are attached to application proﬁles
bhist Displays historical information about jobs
bjobs Displays information about jobs
bpeek Displays stdout and stderr of unﬁnished jobs
bsla Displays information about service class conﬁguration for goal-oriented service-level agreement scheduling
bstatus Reads or sets external job status messages and data ﬁles
Submit and control jobs.
Command Description
bbot Moves a pending job relative to the last job in the queue
bchkpnt Checkpoints a checkpoint-able job
bkill Sends a signal to a job
bmig Migrates a checkpoint-able or re-runnable job
bmod Modiﬁes job submission options
brequeue Kills and re-queues a job
bresize Releases slots and cancels pending job resize allocation requests
brestart Restarts a check-pointed job
bresume Resumes a suspended job
bstop Suspends a job
bsub Submits a job
bswitch Moves unﬁnished jobs from one queue to another
btop Moves a pending job relative to the ﬁrst job in the queue
bsub command
Selected options for the bsub [options] command[arguments] command
IBM Spectrum LSF 157