LSF uses the latest W3C Standard, WAI-ARIA 1.0, to ensure compliance with US Section 508 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0.
To take advantage of accessibility features, use the latest release of your screen reader and the latest web browser that is supported by LSF.
With the exception of the LSF API reference, the LSF online product documentation in IBM® Knowledge Center is enabled for accessibility.
The accessibility features of IBM Knowledge Center are described in the Accessibility section of the IBM Knowledge Center release notes.
For general accessibility information, see Accessibility in IBM.
Keyboard navigation
This product uses standard navigation keys.
Vendor software
LSF may include certain vendor software that is not covered under the IBM license agreement. IBM makes no representation about the accessibility
features of these products. Contact the vendor for accessibility information about its products.
Related accessibility information
In addition to standard IBM help desk and support websites, IBM has a TTY telephone service for use by deaf or hard of hearing customers to access
sales and support services:
TTY service
 800-IBM-3383 (800-426-3383)
 (within North America)
For more information about the commitment that IBM has to accessibility, see IBM Accessibility.
IBM Spectrum LSF videos
Videos for IBM Spectrum LSF are available in the IBM Spectrum LSF User Group library.
For more information, watch the videos in the IBM Spectrum LSF User Group library.
About IBM Spectrum LSF
Get an overview of IBM® Spectrum LSF workload management concepts and operations for both users and administrators.
IBM Spectrum LSF user foundations
 Get an overview of IBM Spectrum LSF workload management concepts and operations.
IBM Spectrum LSF administrator foundations
 Get an administrator overview of IBM Spectrum LSF how to manage various types of workload and cluster operations.
IBM Spectrum LSF user foundations
Get an overview of IBM Spectrum LSF workload management concepts and operations.
IBM Spectrum LSF overview
 Learn how LSF takes your job requirements and ﬁnds the best resources to run the job.
Inside an LSF cluster
 Learn about the various daemon processes that run on LSF hosts, LSF cluster communications paths, and how LSF tolerates host failure in the
cluster.
Inside workload management
 Understand the LSF job lifecycle. Use the bsub to submit jobs to a queue and specify job submission options to modify the default job
behavior. Submitted jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to a host for execution. At job dispatch, LSF checks to see
which hosts are eligible to run the job.
LSF with EGO enabled
 Enable the enterprise grid orchestrator (EGO) with LSF to provide a system infrastructure to control and manage cluster resources. Resources
are physical and logical entities that are used by applications. LSF resources are shared as deﬁned in the EGO resource distribution plan.
IBM Spectrum LSF 159

IBM Spectrum LSF overview
Learn how LSF takes your job requirements and ﬁnds the best resources to run the job.
Introduction to IBM Spectrum LSF
 The IBM Spectrum LSF ("LSF", short for load sharing facility) software is industry-leading enterprise-class software. LSF distributes work
across existing heterogeneous IT resources to create a shared, scalable, and fault-tolerant infrastructure, that delivers faster, more reliable
workload performance and reduces cost. LSF balances load and allocates resources, and provides access to those resources.
LSF cluster components
 An LSF cluster manages resources, accepts and schedules workload, and monitors all events. LSF can be accessed by users and
administrators by a command-line interface, an API, or through the IBM Spectrum LSF Application Center
Introduction to IBM Spectrum LSF
The IBM Spectrum LSF ("LSF", short for load sharing facility) software is industry-leading enterprise-class software. LSF distributes work across
existing heterogeneous IT resources to create a shared, scalable, and fault-tolerant infrastructure, that delivers faster, more reliable workload
performance and reduces cost. LSF balances load and allocates resources, and provides access to those resources.
LSF provides a resource management framework that takes your job requirements, ﬁnds the best resources to run the job, and monitors its progress.
Jobs always run according to host load and site policies.
Cluster
A group of computers (hosts) running LSF that work together as a single unit, combining computing power, workload, and resources. A cluster
provides a single-system image for a network of computing resources.
Hosts can be grouped into a cluster in a number of ways. A cluster can contain:
All the hosts in a single administrative group
All the hosts on a subnetwork
Hosts
Hosts in your cluster perform different functions.
Management host
LSF server host that acts as the overall coordinator for the cluster, doing all job scheduling and dispatch.
Server host
A host that submits and runs jobs.
160    IBM Spectrum LSF

Client host
A host that only submits jobs and tasks.
Execution host
A host that runs jobs and tasks.
Submission host
A host from which jobs and tasks are submitted.
Job
A unit of work that is running in the LSF system. A job is a command that is submitted to LSF for execution. LSF schedules, controls, and tracks the
job according to conﬁgured policies.
Jobs can be complex problems, simulation scenarios, extensive calculations, or anything that needs compute power.
Job slot
A job slot is a bucket into which a single unit of work is assigned in the LSF system.
Hosts can be conﬁgured with multiple job slots and you can dispatch jobs from queues until all the job slots are ﬁlled. You can correlate job slots with
the total number of CPUs in the cluster.
Queue
A cluster-wide container for jobs. All jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to hosts.
Queues do not correspond to individual hosts; each queue can use all server hosts in the cluster, or a conﬁgured subset of the server hosts.
When you submit a job to a queue, you do not need to specify an execution host. LSF dispatches the job to the best available execution host in the
cluster to run that job.
Queues implement different job scheduling and control policies.
Resources
Resources are the objects in your cluster that are available to run work. For example, resources include but are not limited to hosts, CPU slots, and
licenses.
LSF cluster components
An LSF cluster manages resources, accepts and schedules workload, and monitors all events. LSF can be accessed by users and administrators by a
command-line interface, an API, or through the IBM® Spectrum LSF Application Center
IBM Spectrum LSF
The core of LSF includes daemons and other functions to schedule and run jobs, and manage cluster resources.
IBM Spectrum LSF 161

IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler policies control the way software licenses are shared among different users in your organization. IBM
Spectrum LSF License Scheduler works with FlexNet™ and other products to control and monitor license usage.
Inside an LSF cluster
Learn about the various daemon processes that run on LSF hosts, LSF cluster communications paths, and how LSF tolerates host failure in the
cluster.
LSF daemons and processes
 Multiple LSF processes run on each host in the cluster. The type and number of processes that are running depends on whether the host is a
management host or a compute host.
LSF cluster communication paths
 Understand the communication paths between the LSFdaemons in the cluster.
Fault tolerance and automatic management host failover
 The robust architecture of LSF is designed with fault tolerance in mind. Every component in the system has a recovery operationso that vital
components are monitored by another component and can automatically recover from a failure.
Security
 Understand the LSF security model, authentication, and user roles.
LSF daemons and processes
Multiple LSF processes run on each host in the cluster. The type and number of processes that are running depends on whether the host is a
management host or a compute host.
Management host daemon processes
LSF hosts run various daemon processes, depending on their role in the cluster.
Daemon Role
mbatchd Job requests and dispatch
mbschd Job scheduling
sbatchd Job execution
res Job execution
lim Host information
pim Job process information
elim Dynamic load indexes
mbatchd
Management batch daemon that runs on the management host. Responsible for the overall state of jobs in the system.
Receives job submission, and information query requests. Manages jobs that are held in queues. Dispatches jobs to hosts as determined by mbschd.
mbschd
Management batch scheduler daemon that runs on the management host. Works with mbatchd.
162    IBM Spectrum LSF

Makes scheduling decisions based on job requirements, policies, and resource availability. Sends scheduling decisions to the mbatchd.
sbatchd
Server batch daemon that runs on each server host, including the management host. Receives the request to run the job from mbatchd and manages
local execution of the job. Responsible for enforcing local policies and maintaining the state of jobs on the host.
sbatchd forks a child sbatchd for every job. The child sbatchd runs an instance of res to create the execution environment in which the job runs. The
child sbatchd exits when the job is complete.
res
Remote execution server (RES) running on each server host. Accepts remote execution requests to provide clear and secure remote execution of jobs
and tasks.
lim
Load information manager (LIM) running on each server host. Collects host load and conﬁguration information and forwards it to the management
host LIM running on the management host. Reports the information that is displayed by lsload and lshosts.
Static indexes are reported when the LIM starts up or when the number of CPUs (ncpus) change.
Parent LIM
The LIM running on the management host. Receives load information from the LIMs running on hosts in the cluster.
Forwards load information to mbatchd, which forwards this information to mbschd to support scheduling decisions. If the management host LIM
becomes unavailable, a LIM on a management candidate automatically takes over.
PIM
Process information manager (PIM) running on each server host. Started by LIM, which periodically checks on PIM and restarts it if it dies.
Collects information about job processes that run on the host such as CPU and memory that is used by the job, and reports the information to
sbatchd.
ELIM
External LIM (ELIM) is a site-deﬁnable executable ﬁle that collects and tracks custom dynamic load indexes. An ELIM can be a shell script or a
compiled binary program, which returns the values of the dynamic resources you deﬁne. The ELIM executable ﬁle must be named elim.anything and
located in LSF_SERVERDIR.
LSF cluster communication paths
Understand the communication paths between the LSFdaemons in the cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 163

Fault tolerance and automatic management host failover
The robust architecture of LSF is designed with fault tolerance in mind. Every component in the system has a recovery operationso that vital
components are monitored by another component and can automatically recover from a failure.
LSF is designed to continue operating even if some of the hosts in the cluster are unavailable. One host in the cluster acts as the management host,
but if the management host becomes unavailable another management host candidate takes over. LSF is available when one management host
candidate is available in the cluster.
LSF can tolerate the failure of any host or group of hosts in the cluster. When a host becomes unavailable, all jobs that are running on that host are
either requeued or lost, depending on whether the job was marked as rerunnable. No other pending or running jobs are affected.
How failover works
Fault tolerance depends on the event log ﬁle, lsb.events, which is kept on the primary ﬁle server. Every event in the system is logged in this ﬁle,
including all job submissions and job and host status changes. If the management host becomes unavailable, a new management host is chosen
from the management candidate list, and the sbatchd daemon on the new management host starts a new mbatchd daemon. The new mbatchd
daemon reads the lsb.events ﬁle to recover the state of the system.
Duplicate event logging
For sites not wanting to rely solely on a central ﬁle server for recovery information, LSF can be conﬁgured to maintain a duplicate event log by
keeping a replica of the lsb.events ﬁle. The replica is stored on the ﬁle server, and used if the primary copy is unavailable. When duplicate event
logging is enabled, the primary event log is stored locally on the ﬁrst management host, and resynchronized with the replicated copy when the host
recovers.
Host failover
The LSF management host is chosen dynamically. If the current management host becomes unavailable, another host takes over automatically. The
failover management host is selected from the list that is deﬁned in the LSF_MASTER_LIST parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle (speciﬁed in the
install.conﬁg ﬁle at installation). The ﬁrst available host in the list acts as the management host.
Running jobs are managed by the sbatchd daemon on each server host. When the new mbatchd daemon starts, it polls the sbatchd daemon on
each host and ﬁnds the status of its jobs. If the sbatchd daemon fails but the host is still running, jobsthat are running on the host are not lost. When
the sbatchd daemon is restarted, it regains control of all jobs that are running on the host.
Job failover
Jobs can be submitted as rerunnable, so that they automatically run again from the beginning or as checkpointable, so that they start again from a
checkpoint on another host if they are lost because of a host failure.
If all of the hosts in a cluster go down, all running jobs are lost. When a management candidate host comes back up and takes over as management
host, it reads the lsb.events ﬁle to get the state of all batch jobs. Jobs that were running when the systems went down are assumed to be exited
unless they were marked as rerunnable, and email is sent to the submitting user. Pending jobs remain in their queues, and are scheduled as hosts
become available.
Partitioned cluster
If the cluster is partitioned by a network failure, a management host LIM takes over on each side of the partition while a management host candidate
is available on each side of the partition. Interactive load-sharing remains available while each host still has access to the LSF executable ﬁles.
Partitioned network
If the network is partitioned, only one of the partitions can access the lsb.events ﬁle, so LSF services are only available on one side of the partition. A
lock ﬁle is used to make sure that only one mbatchd daemon runs in the cluster.
Job exception handling
You can conﬁgure hosts and queues so that LSF detects exceptional conditions while jobs are running, and takes appropriate action automatically.
You can customize what exceptions are detected and the corresponding actions. For example, you can set LSF to restart a job automatically if it exits
with a speciﬁc error code.
Security
164    IBM Spectrum LSF

Understand the LSF security model, authentication, and user roles.
LSF security model
By default, the LSF security model tracks user accounts internally. A user account that is deﬁned in LSF includes a password to provide
authentication and an assigned role to provide authorization, such as administrator.
LSF user roles
LSF, without EGO enabled, supports the following user roles:
LSF user
Has permission to submit jobs to the LSF cluster and view the states of jobs and the cluster.
Primary LSF administrator
Has permission to perform clusterwide operations, change conﬁguration ﬁles, reconﬁgure the cluster, and control jobs submitted by all users.
Conﬁguration ﬁles such as lsb.params and lsb.hosts conﬁgure all aspects of LSF.
LSF administrator
Has permission to perform operations that affect other LSF users.
Cluster administrator
Can perform administrative operations on all jobs and queues in the cluster. Might not have permission to change LSF conﬁguration
ﬁles.
Queue administrator
Administrative permissions are limited to a speciﬁed queue.
Host group administrator
Administrative permissions are limited to a speciﬁed host group.
User group administrator
Administrative permissions are limited to a speciﬁed user group.
LSF user roles with EGO enabled
LSF, with EGO enabled, supports the following roles:
Cluster administrator
Can administer any objects and workload in the cluster.
Consumer administrator
Can administer any objects and workload in consumers to which they have access.
Consumer user
Can run workload in consumers to which they have access
User accounts are created and managed in EGO. EGO authorizes users from its user database.
LSF user groups
Use any existing UNIX and Linux user groups directly by specifying a UNIX or Linux user group anywhere an LSF user group can be speciﬁed.
IBM Spectrum LSF 165

External authentication
LSF provides a security plug-in for sites that prefer to use external or third-party security mechanisms, such as Kerberos, LDAP, or ActiveDirectory.
You can create a customized eauth executable ﬁle to provide external authentication of users, hosts, and daemons. Credentials are passed from an
external security system. The eauth executable ﬁle can also be customized to obtain credentials from an operating system or from an authentication
protocol such as Kerberos.
Inside workload management
Understand the LSF job lifecycle. Use the bsub to submit jobs to a queue and specify job submission options to modify the default job behavior.
Submitted jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to a host for execution. At job dispatch, LSF checks to see which hosts are
eligible to run the job.
Job lifecycle
 An LSF job goes through several states, starting with job submission, through dispatch, execution, and return of job results.
Job submission
 Submit jobs on the command line with the bsub command. You can specify many options with the bsub command to modify the default
behavior. Jobs must be submitted to a queue.
Job scheduling and dispatch
 Submitted jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to a host for execution.
Host selection
 Each time LSF attempts to dispatch a job, it checks to see which hosts are eligible to run the job.
Job execution environment
 When LSF runs your jobs, it copies the environment from the submission host to the execution host.
Job lifecycle
An LSF job goes through several states, starting with job submission, through dispatch, execution, and return of job results.
1. Submit a job
You submit a job from an LSF client or server with the bsub command.
If you do not specify a queue when you submit a job, the job is submitted to the default queue.
Jobs are held in a queue while they wait to be scheduled. Waiting jobs have the PEND state. The job is held in a job ﬁle in the
LSF_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info/ directory, or in one of its subdirectories if the MAX_INFO_DIRS parameter is deﬁned in the conﬁguration
ﬁle lsb.params.
Job ID
LSF assigns each job a unique job ID when you submit the job.
Job name
You can also assign an arbitrary name to the job with the -J option of bsub. Unlike the job ID, the job name is not necessarily unique.
2. Schedule the job
1. The management batch daemon (mbatchd) looks at jobs in the queue and sends the jobs for scheduling to the management batch scheduler
daemon (mbschd). Jobs are scheduled at a preset time interval (deﬁned by the parameter JOB_SCHEDULING_INTERVAL in the conﬁguration
ﬁle lsb.params).
2. mbschd evaluates jobs and makes scheduling decisions based on:
Job priority
Scheduling policies
Available resources
166    IBM Spectrum LSF

3. mbschd selects the best hosts where the job can run and sends its decisions back to mbatchd.
Resource information is collected at preset time intervals by the parent load information manager (LIM) from LIMs on server hosts. The parent
LIM communicates this information to mbatchd, which in turn communicates it to mbschd to support scheduling decisions.
3. Dispatch the job
As soon as mbatchd receives scheduling decisions, it immediately dispatches the jobs to hosts.
4. Run the job
The server batch daemon (sbatchd) has the following functions:
1. Receives the request from mbatchd.
2. Creates a child sbatchd for the job.
3. Creates the execution environment.
4. Starts the job by using a remote execution server (res).
LSF copies the execution environment from the submission host to the execution host:
Environment variables that are needed by the job
Working directory where the job begins running
Other system-dependent environment settings
On UNIX and Linux, resource limits and umask
On Windows, desktop and Windows root directory
The job runs under the user account that submitted the job and has the status RUN.
5. Return output
When a job is completed, it is assigned the DONE status if the job was completed without any problems. The job is assigned the EXIT status if errors
prevented the job from completing.
sbatchd communicates job information, such as errors and output to mbatchd.
6. Send email to client
mbatchd returns the job output, job error, and job information to the submission host through email. Use the -o and -e options of bsub to send job
output and errors to a ﬁle.
A job report is sent by email to the LSF client and includes the following information:
Job information:
CPU use
Memory use
Name of the account that submitted the job
Job output
Errors
Job submission
Submit jobs on the command line with the bsub command. You can specify many options with the bsub command to modify the default behavior.
Jobs must be submitted to a queue.
You can also use the IBM Platform Application Center to submit jobs.
Queues
Queues represent a set of pending jobs, lined up in a deﬁned order and waiting for their opportunity to use resources. Queues implement different
job scheduling and control policies.
Queues have the following attributes:
Priority
Name
Queue limits (restrictions on hosts, number of jobs, users, groups, or processors)
Standard UNIX and Linux limits (memory, swap, process, CPU)
Scheduling policies
Administrators
Run conditions
IBM Spectrum LSF 167

Load-sharing threshold conditions
UNIX nice value (sets the UNIX and Linux scheduler priority)
Queue priority
Deﬁnes the order in which queues are searched to determine which job will be processed. Queues are assigned a priority by the LSF administrator,
where a higher number has a higher priority. Queues are serviced by LSF in order of priority from the highest to the lowest. If multiple queues have
the same priority, LSF schedules all the jobs from these queues in ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served order.
Automatic queue selection
When you submit a job, LSF considers the requirements of the job and automatically chooses a suitable queue from a list of candidate default
queues.
LSF selects a suitable queue according to the following constraints:
User access restriction
Queues that do not allow this user to submit jobs are not considered.
Host restriction
If the job explicitly speciﬁes a list of hosts on which the job can be run, then the selected queue must be conﬁgured to send jobs to hosts in
the list.
Queue status
Closed queues are not considered.
Exclusive execution restriction
If the job requires exclusive execution, then queues that are not conﬁgured to accept exclusive jobs are not considered.
Job’s requested resources
Resources that the job requests must be within the resource allocation limits of the selected queue.
If multiple queues satisfy the above requirements, then the ﬁrst queue that is listed in the candidate queues that satisﬁes the requirements is
selected.
Job scheduling and dispatch
Submitted jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to a host for execution.
When a job is submitted to LSF, many factors control when and where the job starts to run:
Active time window of the queue or hosts
Resource requirements of the job
Availability of eligible hosts
Various job slot limits
Job dependency conditions
Fair share constraints (conﬁgured user share policies)
Load conditions
Scheduling policies
To solve diverse problems, LSF allows multiple scheduling policies in the same cluster. LSF has several queue scheduling policies such as exclusive,
preemptive, fair share, and hierarchical fair share.
First-come, ﬁrst-served (FCFS) scheduling: By default, jobs in a queue are dispatched in FCFS order. This means that jobs are dispatched
according to their order in the queue.
Service level agreement (SLA) scheduling: An SLA in LSF is a just-in-time scheduling policy that schedules the services agreed to between LSF
administrators and LSF users. The SLA scheduling policy deﬁnes how many jobs should be run from each SLA to meet the conﬁgured goals.
Fair share scheduling: If you specify a fair share scheduling policy for the queue or if host partitions have been conﬁgured, LSF dispatches jobs
between users based on assigned user shares, resource usage, or other factors.
Preemption: You can specify desired behavior so that when two or more jobs compete for the same resources, one job preempts the other.
Preemption can apply to not only job slots, but also to advance reservation (reserving hosts for particular jobs) and licenses (using IBM
Platform License Scheduler).
Backﬁll: Allows small jobs to run on job slots reserved for other jobs, provided that the back-ﬁlling completes before the reservation time
expires and resource usage is due.
Scheduling and dispatch
Jobs are scheduled at regular intervals (5 seconds by default). Once jobs are scheduled, they can be immediately dispatched to hosts.
To prevent overloading any host, by default LSF waits a short time between dispatching jobs to the same host.
168    IBM Spectrum LSF

Dispatch order
Jobs are not necessarily dispatched in the order that they are submitted.
Each queue has a priority number set by the LSF administrator when the queue is deﬁned. LSF tries to start jobs from the highest priority queue ﬁrst.
LSF considers jobs for dispatch in the following order:
For each queue, from highest to lowest priority. If multiple queues have the same priority, LSF schedules all the jobs from these queues in
ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served (FCFS) order.
For each job in the queue, according to FCFS order.
If any host is eligible to run this job, start the job on the best eligible host, and mark that host ineligible to start any other job until the period
speciﬁed by the JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL parameter has passed.
Host selection
Each time LSF attempts to dispatch a job, it checks to see which hosts are eligible to run the job.
A number of conditions determine whether a host is eligible:
Host dispatch windows
Resource requirements of the job
Resource requirements of the queue
Host list of the queue
Host load levels
Job slot limits of the host
User quota and user limits
A host is only eligible to run a job if all the conditions are met. If a job is queued and an eligible host for that job is available, the job is placed on that
host. If more than one host is eligible, the job is started on the best host based on both the job and the queue resource requirements.
Host load levels
A host is available if the values of the load indexes (such as r1m, pg, mem) of the host are within the conﬁgured scheduling thresholds. You can
conﬁgure two kinds of scheduling thresholds: host and queue. If any load index on the host exceeds the corresponding host threshold or queue
threshold, the host is not eligible to run any job.
Eligible hosts
When LSF tries to place a job, it obtains current load information for all hosts.
The load levels on each host are compared to the scheduling thresholds conﬁgured for that host in the Host section of lsb.hosts, and the per-queue
scheduling thresholds conﬁgured in lsb.queues.
If any load index exceeds either its per-queue or its per-host scheduling threshold, no new job is started on that host.
Job execution environment
When LSF runs your jobs, it copies the environment from the submission host to the execution host.
The execution environment includes the following information:
Environment variables that are needed by the job
Working directory where the job begins running
Other system-dependent environment settings, such as resource usage limits
Shared user directories
To provide transparent remote execution, LSF commands determine the user’s current working directory and use that directory on the remote host.
Executable ﬁles and the PATH environment variable
Search paths for executable ﬁles (the PATH environment variable) are passed to the remote execution host unchanged.
IBM Spectrum LSF 169

Note: In mixed clusters, LSF works best when the user binary directories have the same path names on different host types. Using the same paths
names makes the PATH variable valid on all hosts.
For easy administration, LSF conﬁguration ﬁles are stored in a shared directory.
LSF with EGO enabled
Enable the enterprise grid orchestrator (EGO) with LSF to provide a system infrastructure to control and manage cluster resources. Resources are
physical and logical entities that are used by applications. LSF resources are shared as deﬁned in the EGO resource distribution plan.
EGO component overview
 EGO can be enabled with LSF to provide a system infrastructure to control and manage cluster resources.
Resources
 Resources are physical and logical entities that are used by applications to run. While resource is a generic term, and can include low-level
things such as shared memory segments or semaphores. In LSF, EGO manages CPU slots.
How LSF shares resources through EGO
 LSF resources can be shared by deﬁning an EGO resource distribution plan. LSF requests resources from the EGO resource manager. Based on
the values speciﬁed in the resource distribution plan, the resource manager returns the number of available slots (m) and the names of the
hosts on which the slots reside.
EGO component overview
EGO can be enabled with LSF to provide a system infrastructure to control and manage cluster resources.
Just as an operating system running on a single machine aggregates and virtualizes physical resources and allocates them to applications, EGO
performs similar functions, but across a distributed environment.
EGO manages both logical and physical resources and supports all forms of applications. EGO manages the supply of resources, making them
available to applications.
Hosts can be divided into two groups: management hosts and compute hosts. Management hosts provide specialized services to the cluster, while
compute hosts run user workload.
Management hosts
Management hosts provide both cluster and workload management services within the cluster, and are not expected to run workload for users. The
management host, all management candidate hosts, and session manager hosts must be management hosts. Other management hosts include the
host running the data loaders and data purger for the reporting feature.
Management hosts all run on the same operating system: all Windows, all UNIX, or all Linux.
Management host
The management host is the ﬁrst host installed in the cluster. The resource manager (vemkd) for the cluster resides on this host. The
management host controls the rest of the hosts in the cluster and is the interface to the clients of the cluster.
Management candidates
There is only one management host at a time. If the management host should fail, another host automatically takes over the management
host role. Hosts that can act as the management host are called management candidates.
Session manager host
One or more management hosts run session managers. There is one session manager per available slot on a management host. There is one
session manager per application.
Compute hosts
Compute hosts are those hosts in the cluster that provide computing resources to consumers. A cluster may contain any number of compute hosts,
but must have at least one compute host.
CPU slots
A CPU slot is the unit used to measure compute resources. A single CPU slot can run one service instance on a compute host, or one session
manager on a management host.
Daemons
vemkd
The VEM kernel daemon that runs on the management host. It starts other daemons and responds to allocation requests.
egosc
The service controller requests appropriate resources from the vemkd daemon and controls service instances.
170    IBM Spectrum LSF

pem
Process execution manager works for the vemkd daemon, starting, controlling, and monitoring activities, as well as collecting and sending run
time resource usage.
Resources
Resources are physical and logical entities that are used by applications to run. While resource is a generic term, and can include low-level things
such as shared memory segments or semaphores. In LSF, EGO manages CPU slots.
A resource of a particular type has attributes. For example, a compute host has the attributes of memory, CPU utilization, operating system type.
Resource groups
Resources can be grouped into logical groups to simplify identiﬁcation, resource allocation, or for administration and monitoring purposes. These
resource groups are used to provide a consumer with a like group of hosts to run workload. Any host in a resource group can be able to run the same
workload.
The following ﬁgure shows two resource groups:
ManagementHosts
ComputeHosts
If all of your hosts are identical, these resource groups might sufﬁce. If your application requires a speciﬁc type of hosts (for example, with a
minimum processor speed), and not all hosts meet this criteria, you likely need to create resource groups to group like hosts together.
For example, a simple way to group resources might be to group your hosts by operating system type.
EGO provides a common grouping mechanism for resources. Resources might come and go from the system, so EGO supports dynamic membership
in a resource group. Hosts can be placed explicitly into individual resource groups, or the resource groups can be deﬁned with a dynamic
membership based on speciﬁc criteria. This criteria includes operating system type, CPU speed, total memory, or swap conﬁguration, or custom
attributes.
How LSF shares resources through EGO
LSF resources can be shared by deﬁning an EGO resource distribution plan. LSF requests resources from the EGO resource manager. Based on the
values speciﬁed in the resource distribution plan, the resource manager returns the number of available slots (m) and the names of the hosts on
which the slots reside.
IBM Spectrum LSF 171