About IBM Spectrum LSF
Clusters, jobs, and queues
 The IBM® Spectrum LSF ("LSF", short for load sharing facility) software is industry-leading enterprise-class software that distributes work
across existing heterogeneous IT resources to create a shared, scalable, and fault-tolerant infrastructure, that delivers faster, balanced, more
reliable workload performance and reduces cost.
Hosts
 A host is an individual computer in the cluster.
LSF daemons
 LSF interacts with several daemons, each responsible for different aspects of the entire LSF workflow.
Batch jobs and tasks
 Host types and host models
 Users and administrators
 Resources
 Job lifecycle
 
Clusters, jobs, and queues
The IBM Spectrum LSF ("LSF", short for load sharing facility) software is industry-leading enterprise-class software that distributes work across
existing heterogeneous IT resources to create a shared, scalable, and fault-tolerant infrastructure, that delivers faster, balanced, more reliable
workload performance and reduces cost.
Cluster
A group of computers (hosts) running LSF that work together as a single unit, combining computing power and sharing workload and resources. A
cluster provides a single-system image for a network of computing resources.
Hosts can be grouped into clusters in a number of ways. A cluster could contain:
All the hosts in a single administrative group
All the hosts on one ﬁle server or sub-network
Hosts that perform similar functions
Commands
lshosts — View static resource information about hosts in the cluster
bhosts — View resource and job information about server hosts in the cluster
lsid — View the cluster name
lsclusters — View cluster status and size
Conﬁguration
Deﬁne hosts in your cluster in lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Tip:
The name of your cluster should be unique. It should not be the same as any host or queue.
Job
IBM Spectrum LSF 249

A unit of work runs in the LSF system. A job is a command that is submitted to LSF for execution. LSF schedules, controls, and tracks the job
according to conﬁgured policies.
Jobs can be complex problems, simulation scenarios, extensive calculations, anything that needs compute power.
Commands
bjobs — View jobs in the system
bsub — Submit jobs
Job slot
A job slot is a bucket into which a single unit of work is assigned in the LSF system. Hosts are conﬁgured to have a number of job slots available and
queues dispatch jobs to ﬁll job slots.
Commands
bhosts — View job slot limits for hosts and host groups
bqueues — View job slot limits for queues
busers — View job slot limits for users and user groups
Conﬁguration
Deﬁne job slot limits in lsb.resources.
Job states
LSF jobs have the following states:
PEND — Waiting in a queue for scheduling and dispatch
RUN — Dispatched to a host and running
DONE — Finished normally with zero exit value
EXIT — Finished with non-zero exit value
PSUSP — Suspended while pending
USUSP — Suspended by user
SSUSP — Suspended by the LSF system
POST_DONE — Post-processing is completed without errors
POST_ERR — Post-processing is completed with errors
WAIT — Members of a chunk job that are waiting to run
Queue
A cluster wide container for jobs. All jobs wait in queues until they are scheduled and dispatched to hosts.
Queues do not correspond to individual hosts; each queue can use all server hosts in the cluster, or a conﬁgured subset of the server hosts.
When you submit a job to a queue, you do not need to specify an execution host. LSF dispatches the job to the best available execution host in the
cluster to run that job.
Queues implement different job scheduling and control policies.
Commands
bqueues — View available queues
bsub -q — Submit a job to a speciﬁc queue
bparams — View default queues
Conﬁguration
Deﬁne queues in lsb.queues
250    IBM Spectrum LSF

Tip:
The names of your queues should be unique. They should not be the same as the cluster name or any host in the cluster.
First-come, ﬁrst-served scheduling (FCFS)
The default type of scheduling in LSF. Jobs are considered for dispatch based on their order in the queue.
Hosts
A host is an individual computer in the cluster.
Each host may have more than one processor. Multiprocessor hosts are used to run parallel jobs. A multiprocessor host with a single process queue
is considered a single machine, while a box full of processors that each have their own process queue is treated as a group of separate machines.
Host commands
The following LSF commands are useful when working with hosts in your LSF cluster:
lsload: to view the load on hosts
lshosts: to view conﬁguration information about hosts in the cluster, including the number of CPUs, model, type, and whether the host is a
client or server
bhosts: to view batch server hosts in the cluster
Tip: The names of your hosts should be unique. They should not be the same as the cluster name or any queue deﬁned for the cluster.
Types of LSF hosts
LSF supports three types of hosts:
Server
A server host is capable of submitting and running jobs. It runs sbatchd to execute server requests and apply local policies.
Use the lshosts command to view hosts that are servers (server=Yes).
Server hosts are deﬁned in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle by setting the value of server to 1.
Client
A client hosts is only capable of submitting jobs to the cluster. They run LSF commands and act only as submission hosts; they do not execute
jobs or run LSF daemons.
Use the lshosts command to view hosts that are clients (server=No).
Client hosts are deﬁned in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle by setting the value of server to 0
Management
A Management host is an LSF server host that acts as the overall coordinator for that cluster. All LSF daemons (including the mbatchd
daemon) run on the management host. The LIM on the management host is the management host LIM. The host LIM runs from the
management host.
Each cluster has one management host to do all job scheduling and dispatch. If the management host goes down, another LSF server in the
cluster becomes the management host.
Use the lsid command to view the management host name.
The management host is the ﬁrst host that is listed in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle or is deﬁned along with other candidate management
hosts by LSF_MASTER_LIST in lsf.conf.
Submitting and executing LSF jobs
Additionally, when you run LSF jobs, you do so by running commands from the host where you submit the job, which can be different from the host
that actually runs or executes the job:
Submission
Where jobs are submitted to the cluster. Client hosts and server hosts can act as submission hosts.
Use these command for job submission:
bsub: to submit a job
bjobs: to view jobs that are submitted
Jobs are submitted using the bsub command or from an application that uses the LSF API.
Execution
IBM Spectrum LSF 251

Where a job runs or executes. The execution host can be the same as the submission host, or can be separate. All execution hosts are server
hosts.
Use the bjobs LSF command to view where a job runs.
LSF daemons
LSF interacts with several daemons, each responsible for different aspects of the entire LSF workflow.
mbatchd  (mbd )
Management batch daemon running on the management host.
Started by sbatchd.
Responsible for the overall state of jobs in the system.
Receives job submission, and information query requests.
Manages jobs that are held in queues. Dispatches jobs to hosts as determined by mbschd.
Conﬁguration
Port number is deﬁned in lsf.conf.
lsfproxyd
LSF rate limiter daemon.
By default, all LSF batch commands contact the mbatchd daemon (or the mbatchd query child, if conﬁgured). When there are excessive
requests, such as scripts with tight loop running bjobs commands, mbatchd can become overloaded, negatively affecting cluster
performance. Starting in Fix Pack 14, to protect mbatchd from heavy loads, enable the LSF rate limiter (controlled by the lsfproxyd
daemon), which acts as a gatekeeper between the commands and the mbatchd daemon. The rate limiter is supported on Linux.
Conﬁguration
You can conﬁgure to have multiple lsfproxyd daemons run within a single cluster; use the LSF_PROXY_HOSTS parameter to list the hosts on
which you want lsfproxyd daemons to run. When multiple lsfproxyd daemons are deﬁned for a cluster, they work together to balance
workload and provide high availability: the client command ﬁrst randomly picks one to use, and if an lsfproxyd daemon is unavailable, then
the command locates another one to use.
LIM controls starting and restarting the lsfproxyd daemon on the LSF hosts speciﬁed in the LSF_PROXY_HOSTS parameter in the lsf.conf
ﬁle. When the lsfproxyd daemon starts, it binds to the listening port speciﬁed by the LSF_PROXY_PORT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. LIM
restarts the lsfproxyd daemon if it dies.
mbschd
Management batch scheduler daemon running on the management host.
Works with mbatchd.
Started by mbatchd.
Makes scheduling decisions based on job requirements, and policies, and resource availability. Sends scheduling decisions to mbatchd.
sbatchd
Server batch daemon running on each server host.
Receives the request to run the job from mbatchd and manages local execution of the job.
Responsible for enforcing local policies and maintaining the state of jobs on the host.
The sbatchd forks a child sbatchd for every job. The child sbatchd runs an instance of sbatchd to create the execution environment in
which the job runs. The child sbatchd exits when the job is complete.
Commands
bctrld start sbd: Start sbatchd.
bctrld stop sbd: Shut down sbatchd.
bctrld restart sbd: Restart sbatchd.
Conﬁguration
Port number is deﬁned in lsf.conf.
res
Remote execution server (res) running on each server host.
Accepts remote execution requests to provide transparent and secure remote execution of jobs and tasks.
Commands
252    IBM Spectrum LSF

bctrld start res: Start res.
bctrld stop res: Shut down res.
bctrld restart res: Restart res.
Conﬁguration
Port number is deﬁned in lsf.conf.
lim
Load information manager (LIM) running on each server host.
Collects host load and conﬁguration information and forwards it to the management host LIM running on the management host.
Reports the information that is displayed by the lsload and lshosts commands.
Static indices are reported when the LIM starts up or when the number of CPUs (ncpus) change. Static indices are:
Number of CPUs (ncpus)
Number of disks (ndisks)
Total available memory (maxmem)
Total available swap (maxswp)
Total available temp (maxtmp)
Dynamic indices for host load collected at regular intervals are:
Hosts status (status)
15 second, 1 minute, and 15 minute run queue lengths (r15s, r1m, and r15m)
CPU utilization (ut)
Paging rate (pg)
Number of login sessions (ls)
Interactive idle time (it)
Available swap space (swp)
Available memory (mem)
Available temp space (tmp)
Disk IO rate (io)
Commands
bctrld start lim: Start LIM.
bctrld stop lim: Shut down LIM.
bctrld restart lim: Restart LIM.
lsload: View dynamic load values.
lshosts: View static host load values.
Conﬁguration
Port number is deﬁned in lsf.conf.
Parent lim
The LIM running on the management host. Receives load information from the LIMs running on hosts in the cluster.
Forwards load information to mbatchd, which forwards this information to mbschd to support scheduling decisions. If the management host
LIM becomes unavailable, a LIM on another host automatically takes over.
Commands
bctrld start lim: Start LIM.
bctrld stop lim: Shut down LIM.
bctrld restart lim: Restarts LIM.
lsload: View dynamic load values.
lshosts: View static host load values.
Conﬁguration
Port number is deﬁned in lsf.conf.
elim
External LIM (ELIM) is a site-deﬁnable executable that collects and tracks custom dynamic load indices. An ELIM can be a shell script or a compiled
binary program, which returns the values of the dynamic resources you deﬁne. The ELIM executable must be named elim and located in
LSF_SERVERDIR.
pim
Process information manager (PIM) running on each server host.
Started by LIM, which periodically checks on pim and restarts it if it dies.
IBM Spectrum LSF 253

Collects information about job processes running on the host such as CPU and memory that is used by the job, and reports the information to
sbatchd.
Commands
bjobs: View job information.
Related concepts
Offloading the mbatchd daemon using the LSF rate limiter (lsfproxyd daemon)
Batch jobs and tasks
You can either run jobs through the batch system where jobs are held in queues, or you can interactively run tasks without going through the batch
system, such as tests.
Job
A unit of work that is run in the LSF system. A job is a command that is submitted to LSF for execution, using the bsub command. LSF schedules,
controls, and tracks the job according to conﬁgured policies.
Jobs can be complex problems, simulation scenarios, extensive calculations, anything that needs compute power.
Commands
bjobs: View jobs in the system
bsub: Submit jobs
Interactive batch job
A batch job that allows you to interact with the application and still take advantage of LSF scheduling policies and fault tolerance. All input and
output are through the terminal that you used to type the job submission command.
When you submit an interactive job, a message is displayed while the job is awaiting scheduling. A new job cannot be submitted until the interactive
job is completed or terminated.
The bsub command stops display of output from the shell until the job completes, and no mail is sent to you by default. Use Ctrl-C at any time to
terminate the job.
Commands
bsub -I: Submit an interactive job
Interactive task
A command that is not submitted to a batch queue and scheduled by LSF, but is dispatched immediately. LSF locates the resources that are needed
by the task and chooses the best host among the candidate hosts that has the required resources and is lightly loaded. Each command can be a
single process, or it can be a group of cooperating processes.
Tasks are run without using the batch processing features of LSF but still with the advantage of resource requirements and selection of the best host
to run the task based on load.
Commands
lsrun: Submit an interactive task
lsgrun: Submit an interactive task to a group of hosts
See also LSF utilities such as lsacct, lsacctmrg, lsplace, lsload, lsloadadj, .
Host types and host models
Hosts in LSF are characterized by host type and host model.
The following example has a host type of X86_64. Host models are Opteron240, Opteron840, Intel_EM64T, Intel_IA64.
254    IBM Spectrum LSF

Host type
The combination of operating system version and host CPU architecture.
All computers that run the same operating system on the same computer architecture are of the same type — in other words, binary-compatible with
each other.
Each host type usually requires a different set of LSF binary ﬁles.
Commands:
lsinfo -t — View all host types that are deﬁned in lsf.shared
Conﬁguration:
Deﬁned in lsf.shared
Mapped to hosts in lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Host model
The combination of host type and CPU speed (CPU factor) of the computer.
All hosts of the same relative speed are assigned the same host model.
The CPU factor is taken into consideration when jobs are being dispatched.
Commands:
lsinfo -m — View a list of currently running models
lsinfo -M — View all models that are deﬁned in lsf.shared
Conﬁguration:
Deﬁned in lsf.shared
Mapped to hosts in lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Users and administrators
LSF user
A user account that has permission to submit jobs to the LSF cluster.
LSF administrator
In general, you must be an LSF administrator to perform operations that will affect other LSF users. Each cluster has one primary LSF administrator,
speciﬁed during LSF installation. You can also conﬁgure additional administrators at the cluster level and at the queue level.
Primary LSF administrator
The ﬁrst cluster administrator speciﬁed during installation and ﬁrst administrator listed in lsf.cluster.cluster_name. The primary LSF administrator
account owns the conﬁguration and log ﬁles. The primary LSF administrator has permission to perform clusterwide operations, change conﬁguration
ﬁles, reconﬁgure the cluster, and control jobs submitted by all users.
Cluster administrator
May be speciﬁed during LSF installation or conﬁgured after installation. Cluster administrators can perform administrative operations on all jobs and
queues in the cluster. Cluster administrators have the same cluster-wide operational privileges as the primary LSF administrator except that they do
not necessarily have permission to change LSF conﬁguration ﬁles.
For example, a cluster administrator can create an LSF host group, submit a job to any queue, or terminate another user’s job.
IBM Spectrum LSF 255

Queue administrator
An LSF administrator user account that has administrative permissions limited to a speciﬁed queue. For example, an LSF queue administrator can
perform administrative operations on the speciﬁed queue, or on jobs running in the speciﬁed queue, but cannot change LSF conﬁguration or operate
on LSF daemons.
Resources
Resource usage
The LSF system uses built-in and conﬁgured resources to track resource availability and usage. Jobs are scheduled according to the resources
available on individual hosts.
Jobs that are submitted through the LSF system will have the resources that they use monitored while they are running. This information is used to
enforce resource limits and load thresholds as well as fair share scheduling.
LSF collects information such as:
Total CPU time consumed by all processes in the job
Total resident memory usage in KB of all currently running processes in a job
Total virtual memory usage in KB of all currently running processes in a job
Currently active process group ID in a job
Currently active processes in a job
On UNIX, job-level resource usage is collected through PIM.
Commands
lsinfo; View the resources available in your cluster
bjobs -l: View current resource usage of a job
Conﬁguration
SBD_SLEEP_TIME in lsb.params: Conﬁgures how often resource usage information is sampled by PIM, collected by sbatchd, and sent to 
mbatchd
Load indices
Load indices measure the availability of dynamic, non-shared resources on hosts in the cluster. Load indices that are built into the LIM are updated at
ﬁxed time intervals.
Commands
lsload -l: View all load indices
bhosts -l: View load levels on a host
External load indices
Deﬁned and conﬁgured by the LSF administrator and collected by an External Load Information Manager (ELIM) program. The ELIM also updates LIM
when new values are received.
Commands
lsinfo: View external load indices
Static resources
Built-in resources that represent host information that does not change over time, such as the maximum RAM available to user processes or the
number of processors in a machine. Most static resources are determined by the LIM at startup.
Static resources can be used to select appropriate hosts for particular jobs based on binary architecture, relative CPU speed, and system
conﬁguration.
Load thresholds
Two types of load thresholds can be conﬁgured by your LSF administrator to schedule jobs in queues. Each load threshold speciﬁes a load index
value:
256    IBM Spectrum LSF

loadSched determines the load condition for dispatching pending jobs. If a host’s load is beyond any deﬁned loadSched, a job will not be
started on the host. This threshold is also used as the condition for resuming suspended jobs.
loadStop determines when running jobs should be suspended.
To schedule a job on a host, the load levels on that host must satisfy both the thresholds that are conﬁgured for that host and the thresholds
for the queue from which the job is being dispatched.
The value of a load index may either increase or decrease with load, depending on the meaning of the speciﬁc load index. Therefore, when
comparing the host load conditions with the threshold values, you need to use either greater than (>) or less than (<), depending on the load
index.
Commands
bhosts -l: View suspending conditions for hosts
bqueues -l: View suspending conditions for queues
bjobs -l: View suspending conditions for a particular job and the scheduling thresholds that control when a job is resumed
Conﬁguration
lsb.hosts: Conﬁgure thresholds for hosts
lsb.queues: Conﬁgure thresholds for queues
Runtime resource usage limits
Limit the use of resources while a job is running. Jobs that consume more than the speciﬁed amount of a resource are signaled or have their priority
lowered.
Conﬁguration
lsb.queues: Conﬁgure resource usage limits for queues
Hard and soft limits
Resource limits that are speciﬁed at the queue level are hard limits while those speciﬁed with job submission are soft limits. See setrlimit(2)
man page for concepts of hard and soft limits.
Resource allocation limits
Restrict the amount of a given resource that must be available during job scheduling for different classes of jobs to start, and which resource
consumers the limits apply to. If all of the resource has been consumed, no more jobs can be started until some of the resource is released.
Conﬁguration
lsb.resources: Conﬁgure queue-level resource allocation limits for hosts, users, queues, and projects
Resource requirements (bsub -R)
Restrict which hosts the job can run on. Hosts that match the resource requirements are the candidate hosts. When LSF schedules a job, it collects
the load index values of all the candidate hosts and compares them to the scheduling conditions. Jobs are only dispatched to a host if all load values
are within the scheduling thresholds.
Commands
bsub -R: Specify resource requirement string for a job
Conﬁguration
lsb.queues: Conﬁgure resource requirements for queues
Job lifecycle
IBM Spectrum LSF 257

1: Submit a job
You submit a job from an LSF client or server with the bsub command.
If you do not specify a queue when submitting the job, the job is submitted to the default queue.
Jobs are held in a queue waiting to be scheduled and have the PEND state. The job is held in a job ﬁle in the
LSF_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info/ directory.
Job ID
LSF assigns each job a unique job ID when you submit the job.
Job name
You can also assign a name to the job with the -J option of bsub. Unlike the job ID, the job name is not necessarily unique.
2: Schedule job
1. The mbatchd daemon looks at jobs in the queue and sends the jobs for scheduling to mbschd at a preset time interval (deﬁned by the
parameter JOB_SCHEDULING_INTERVAL in lsb.params).
2. mbschd evaluates jobs and makes scheduling decisions based on the following:
Job priority
Scheduling policies
Available resources
3. mbschd selects the best hosts where the job can run and sends its decisions back to mbatchd.
Resource information is collected at preset time intervals by the management host LIM from the LIM instances on server hosts. The management
host LIM communicates this information to mbatchd, which in turn communicates it to mbschd to support scheduling decisions.
3: Dispatch job
As soon as mbatchd receives scheduling decisions, it immediately dispatches the jobs to hosts.
4: Run job
The sbatchd daemon handles job execution, as follows:
1. Receives the request from mbatchd.
2. Creates a child sbatchd for the job.
3. Creates the execution environment.
4. Starts the job using res.
The execution environment is copied from the submission host to the execution host, including:
Environment variables that are needed by the job.
Working directory where the job begins running.
Other system-dependent environment settings; for example:
On UNIX and Linux, resource limits and umask.
On Windows, desktop and Windows root directory.
The job runs under the user account that submitted the job and has the status RUN.
5: Return output
When a job is completed, it is assigned the DONE status if the job was completed without any problems. The job is assigned the EXIT status if errors
prevented the job from completing.
The sbatchd daemon communicates job information including errors and output to mbatchd.
258    IBM Spectrum LSF