4. Submit a job to run on compute units with the most available slots by using the pref=maxavail keyword.
For example, to submit a job to run on compute units with the most slots:
bsub -R "cu[pref=maxavail]" my_job 
5. Submit a job to run on as few compute units as possible while preferring to use compute units with fewer free slots by using the
pref=bestfit keyword.
This attempts to reduce fragmentation on the cluster. Do not use pref=bestfit with the balance keyword.
bsub -R "cu[pref=bestfit]" my_job 
Set pending time limits
You can specify pending time limits and eligible pending time limits for jobs to ensure that jobs do not remain pending in LSF for too long.
LSF sends the pending time limit and eligible pending time limit conﬁgurations to IBM® Spectrum LSF RTM (LSF RTM), which handles the alarm and
triggers actions such as user notiﬁcation (for example, notifying the user that submitted the job and the LSF administrator) and job control actions
(for example, killing the job). LSF RTM compares the job's pending time to the pending time limit, and the eligible pending time to the eligible pending
time limit. If the job is in a pending state or an eligible pending state for longer than these speciﬁed time limits, LSF RTM triggers the alarm and
actions. Without LSF RTM, LSF shows the pending time limit and takes no action on the pending time limit.
To specify the pending time limit or eligible pending time limit for your job, use the -ptl or -eptl options for bsub and bmod:
-ptl [hour:]minute
-eptl [hour:]minute
The pending or eligible pending time limits are in the form of [hour:]minute. The minutes can be speciﬁed as a number greater than 59. For example,
three and a half hours can either be speciﬁed as 3:30, or 210.
LSF does not perform any alarm actions. However, you can keep track of the amount of time that jobs spent in pending or eligible pending states, and
whether the jobs have reached the pending time limits:
The -l option for bjobs, bapp, and bqueues show the job-, application-, and queue-level pending time limits (and eligible pending time limits),
respectively.
To keep track of the amount of time that current pending jobs have spent in the pending and eligible pending states, and to see how much time is
remaining before LSF sends an alarm notiﬁcation, run the bjobs -p -o to get customized output for pending jobs, as follows:
Pending time limit:
bjobs -p -o "id effective_plimit plimit_remain" 
JOBID EFFECTIVE_PLIMIT PLIMIT_REMAIN 
101   1800             -60 
102   3600              60
Eligible pending time limit:
bjobs -p -o "id effective_eplimit eplimit_remain" 
JOBID EFFECTIVE_EPLIMIT EPLIMIT_REMAIN 
101   600              -60 
102   900               60
The EFFECTIVE_PLIMIT and EFFECTIVE_EPLIMIT columns indicate the pending and eligible pending time limits for the job, while the
PLIMIT_REMAIN and EPLIMIT_REMAIN columns display the amount of time remaining that the job has before LSF sends an alarm notiﬁcation. A
negative number indicates that the time limit was reached and shows the amount of time since the limit was reached.
Monitoring jobs
View information about jobs
 Display resource allocation limits
 Use the blimits command to display resource allocation limits.
View information about jobs
Procedure
Use the bjobs and bhist commands to view information about jobs:
IBM Spectrum LSF 275

bjobs reports the status of jobs and the various options allow you to display speciﬁc information.
bhist reports the history of one or more jobs in the system.
You can also ﬁnd jobs on speciﬁc queues or hosts, ﬁnd jobs that are submitted by speciﬁc projects, and check the status of speciﬁc jobs by
using their job IDs or names.
View unﬁnished jobs
 View summary information of unﬁnished jobs
 View all jobs
 View running jobs
 View pending reasons for jobs
 When you submit a job, it can be held in the queue before it starts running and it might be suspended while it is running. You can ﬁnd out why
jobs are pending or in suspension with the bjobs -p option.
View job suspending reasons
 When you submit a job, it may be held in the queue before it starts running and it may be suspended while running.
View detailed job information
 View job group information
 You can view information about jobs in job groups or view jobs by job group.
Monitor SLA progress
 View job output
 View chronological history of jobs
 View history of jobs not listed in active event log
 View job history
 View the job submission environment
 Use the bjobs -env command option to view a job's environment variables or the bjobs -script command option to view the job script ﬁle.
Update interval
 Job-level information
 
View unﬁnished jobs
Procedure
Run bjobs to view the status of LSF jobs.
When no options are speciﬁed, bjobs displays information about jobs in the PEND, RUN, USUSP, PSUSP, and SSUSP states for the current user.
View summary information of unﬁnished jobs
Procedure
Run bjobs -sum to view summary information on the status of LSF jobs.
When no other options are speciﬁed, bjobs -sum displays the count of unﬁnished tasks for jobs in the following states: running (RUN), system
suspended (SSUSP), user suspended (USUSP), pending (PEND), forwarded to remote clusters and pending (FWD_PEND), and UNKNOWN.
Use bjobs -sum with other options (such as -m, -P, -q, and -u) to ﬁlter the results. For example, bjobs -sum -u user1 displays task counts just for
user user1.
View all jobs
About this task
You can display information about jobs that are both running and those recently ﬁnished (PEND, RUN, USUSP, PSUSP, SSUSP, DONE, and EXIT
statuses).
Procedure
Run bjobs -a .
All your jobs that are still in the system and jobs that have recently ﬁnished are displayed.
276    IBM Spectrum LSF

View running jobs
About this task
You can display information about only jobs that are running (RUN status).
Procedure
Run bjobs -r.
All your running jobs are displayed.
View pending reasons for jobs
When you submit a job, it can be held in the queue before it starts running and it might be suspended while it is running. You can ﬁnd out why jobs
are pending or in suspension with the bjobs -p option.
Procedure
1. Run bjobs -p.
Displays information for pending jobs (PEND state) and their reasons. There can be more than one reason why the job is pending.
The pending reasons also display the number of hosts for each condition.
2. To get speciﬁc host names along with pending reasons, run bjobs -lp.
3. To view the pending reasons for all users, run bjobs -p -u all.
4. Run bjobs -psum to display the summarized number of jobs, hosts, and occurrences for each pending reason.
5. Run busers -w all to see the maximum pending job threshold for all users.
View job suspending reasons
When you submit a job, it may be held in the queue before it starts running and it may be suspended while running.
Procedure
1. Run the bjobs -s command.
Displays information for suspended jobs (SUSP state) and their reasons. There can be more than one reason why the job is suspended.
The pending reasons also display the number of hosts for each condition.
2. Run bjobs -ls to see detailed information about suspended jobs, including speciﬁc host names along with the suspend reason.
The load threshold that caused LSF to suspend a job, together with the scheduling parameters, is displayed.
Note: The STOP_COND parameter affects the suspending reasons as displayed by the bjobs command. If the STOP_COND parameter is
speciﬁed in the queue and the loadStop thresholds are not speciﬁed, the suspending reasons for each individual load index are not
displayed.
3. To view the suspend reasons for all users, run bjobs -s -u all.
View detailed job information
About this task
The -l option of bjobs displays detailed information about job status and parameters, such as the job’s current working directory, parameters that are
speciﬁed when the job was submitted, and the time when the job started running.
bjobs -l with a job ID displays all the information about a job, including:
Submission parameters
Execution environment
Resource usage
IBM Spectrum LSF 277

Procedure
Run bjobs -l.
bjobs -l 7678  
Job Id <7678>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Status <PEND>, Queue <priority>, Command <verilog> 
Mon Oct 28 13:08:11 2009: Submitted from host <hostD>,CWD <$HOME>, Requested Resources <type==any && swp>35>; 
PENDING REASONS: 
Queue’s resource requirements not satisfied:3 hosts; 
Not enough job slots: 1 host; 
SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut   pg    io   ls  it  tmp  swp  mem 
loadSched  -      0.7  1.0    -    4.0   -    -   -   -    -    - 
loadStop   -      1.5  2.5    -    8.0   -    -   -   -    -    - 
View job group information
You can view information about jobs in job groups or view jobs by job group.
Before you begin
Procedure
To see all job groups, run bjgroup.
To see jobs by job group, run bjobs -g /group_name.
Monitor SLA progress
About this task
You can display the properties of service classes that are conﬁgured in lsb.serviceclasses and the dynamic state information for each service class.
Procedure
1. Run bsla
2. Run bacct -sla to display historical performance of a service class.
Example
View job output
Before you begin
You must be logged on as the job owner.
About this task
The output from a job is normally not available until the job is ﬁnished. However, LSF provides the bpeek command for you to look at the output the
job has produced so far.
By default, bpeek shows the output from the most recently submitted job. You can also select the job by queue or execution host, or specify the job
ID or job name on the command line.
To save time, you can use this command to check whether your job is behaving as you expected and kill the job if it is running away or producing
unusable results.
Procedure
278    IBM Spectrum LSF

Run bpeek job_id.
Example
For example:
bpeek 1234 
<< output from stdout >> 
Starting phase 1 
Phase 1 done 
Calculating new parameters 
... 
View chronological history of jobs
About this task
By default, the bhist command displays information from the job event history ﬁle, lsb.events, on a per job basis.
Procedure
Use the -t option of bhist to display the events chronologically instead of grouping all events for each job.
Use the -T option to select only those events within a given time range.
Example
For example, the following displays all events that occurred between 14:00 and 14:30 on a given day:
bhist -t -T 14:00,14:30 
Wed Oct 22 14:01:25 2009: Job <1574> done successfully; 
Wed Oct 22 14:03:09 2009: Job <1575> submitted from host to Queue , CWD , User , Project , Command ,  
Requested Resources ; 
Wed Oct 22 14:03:18 2009: Job <1575> dispatched to ; 
Wed Oct 22 14:03:18 2009: Job <1575> starting (Pid 210); 
Wed Oct 22 14:03:18 2009: Job <1575> running with execution home , Execution CWD , Execution Pid <210>; 
Wed Oct 22 14:05:06 2009: Job <1577> submitted from host  to Queue, CWD , User , Project , Command ,  
Requested Resources ; 
Wed Oct 22 14:05:11 2009: Job <1577> dispatched to ; 
Wed Oct 22 14:05:11 2009: Job <1577> starting (Pid 429); 
Wed Oct 22 14:05:12 2009: Job <1577> running with execution home, Execution CWD , Execution Pid <429>; 
Wed Oct 22 14:08:26 2009: Job <1578> submitted from host to Queue, CWD , User , Project , Command; 
Wed Oct 22 14:10:55 2009: Job <1577> done successfully; 
Wed Oct 22 14:16:55 2009: Job <1578> exited; 
Wed Oct 22 14:17:04 2009: Job <1575> done successfully; 
View history of jobs not listed in active event log
About this task
LSF periodically backs up and prunes the job history log. By default, bhist only displays job history from the current event log ﬁle. You can display the
history for jobs that completed some time ago and are no longer listed in the active event log.
The -n num_logﬁles option tells the bhist command to search through the speciﬁed number of log ﬁles instead of only searching the current log ﬁle.
Log ﬁles are searched in reverse time order. For example, the command bhist -n 3 searches the current event log ﬁle and then the two most
recent backup ﬁles.
Procedure
Run bhist -n num_logﬁles.
Example
bhist -n 1 Searches the current event log ﬁle lsb.events
bhist -n 2 
IBM Spectrum LSF 279

Searches lsb.events and lsb.events.1
bhist -n 3 Searches lsb.events, lsb.events.1, lsb.events.2
bhist -n 0 Searches all event log ﬁles in LSB_SHAREDIR
View job history
About this task
You can check on the status of your job since it was submitted. The bhist command displays a summary of the pending, suspended, and running time
of jobs for the user who invoked the command.
Procedure
Run bhist.
a. Run bhist -l to display the time information and a complete history of scheduling events for each job.
b. Use bhist -u all to display a summary for all users in the cluster.
View the job submission environment
Use the bjobs -env command option to view a job's environment variables or the bjobs -script command option to view the job script ﬁle.
About this task
You cannot specify the -env option together with the -script option. In addition, you cannot specify any other bjobs options with the -env or -script
options.
Procedure
To view the environment variables for a speciﬁed job, run the bjobs -env command option.
bjobs -env job_id
You must specify a single job ID or job array element when using the -env command option. Multiple job IDs are not supported.
To view the speciﬁed job's job script ﬁle, run the bjobs -script command option.
bjobs -script job_id
You must specify a single job ID or job array element when using the -script command option. Job arrays and multiple job IDs are not
supported.
Update interval
The job-level resource usage information is updated at a maximum frequency of every SBD_SLEEP_TIME second.
The update is done only if the value for the CPU time, resident memory usage, or virtual memory usage has changed by more than 10 percent from
the previous update or if a new process or process group has been created.
Job-level information
Job-level information includes:
Total CPU time consumed by all processes of a job
Total resident memory usage in KB of all currently running processes of a job
Total virtual memory usage in KB of all currently running processes of a job
280    IBM Spectrum LSF