Currently active process group ID of a job
Currently active processes of a job
Display resource allocation limits
Use the blimits command to display resource allocation limits.
The blimits command displays the following information:
Conﬁgured policy name and information for limits that are being applied to running jobs.
Conﬁgured policy name and information for all limits, even if they are not being applied to running jobs (-a option).
Users (-u option)
Queues (-q option)
Hosts (-m option)
Project names (-P option)
All resource conﬁgurations in lsb.resources (-c option). This option is the same as bresources with no options.
Resources that have no conﬁgured limits or no limit usage are indicated by a dash (-). Limits are displayed in a USED/LIMIT format. For example, if a
limit of 10 slots is conﬁgured and 3 slots are in use, then blimits displays the limit for SLOTS as 3/10.
If limits MEM, SWP, or TMP are conﬁgured as percentages, both the limit and the amount that is used are displayed in MB. For example, lshosts
displays maximum memory (maxmem) of 249 MB, and MEM is limited to 10% of available memory. If 10 MB out of are used, blimits displays the
limit for MEM as 10/25 (10 MB USED from a 25 MB LIMIT).
Conﬁgured limits and resource usage for built-in resources (slots, mem, tmp, and swp load indices) are displayed as INTERNAL RESOURCE LIMITS
separately from custom external resources, which are shown as EXTERNAL RESOURCE LIMITS.
Limits are displayed for both the vertical tabular format and the horizontal format for Limit sections. If a vertical format Limit section has no name,
blimits displays NONAMEnnn under the NAME column for these limits, where the unnamed limits are numbered in the order the vertical-format Limit
sections appear in the lsb.resources ﬁle.
If a resource consumer is conﬁgured as all, the limit usage for that consumer is indicated by a dash (-).
PER_HOST slot limits are not displayed. The bhosts command displays these limits as MXJ limits.
In MultiCluster, blimits returns the information about all limits in the local cluster.
View information about resource allocation limits
 
View information about resource allocation limits
About this task
Your job may be pending because some conﬁgured resource allocation limit has been reached. You can display the dynamic counters of resource
allocation limits conﬁgured in the Limit sections in lsb.resources.
Procedure
Run blimits to display the current resource usage, including any limits that may be blocking your job.
Administer IBM Spectrum LSF
Learn how to manage your IBM® Spectrum LSF cluster, control daemons, change cluster conﬁgurations, and work with hosts and queues. Manage
your LSF jobs and job scheduling policies. View job information and control jobs. Learn how to conﬁgure and allocate resources to your LSF jobs.
Learn how to submit, monitor, and control high throughput and parallel workload in your LSF cluster. Learn about LSF error and event logging and
how LSF handles job exceptions. Tune the performance and scalability of your LSF cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF cluster management essentials
 Learn how to manage your LSF cluster, control daemons, change cluster conﬁgurations, and work with hosts, queues, and users.
Monitoring IBM Spectrum LSF cluster operations and health
 Learn how to monitor cluster performance, job resource usage, and other information about queues, jobs, and users.
Managing IBM Spectrum LSF job execution
 Learn how to manage your LSF jobs and job scheduling policies. View job information, control jobs, and manage job dependencies, job
IBM Spectrum LSF 281