When LSF runs a task on a remote host, the task uses standard UNIX system calls to access ﬁles and devices. The user must have an account on the
remote host. All operations on the remote host are done with the user’s access permissions.
Tasks that read and write ﬁles access the ﬁles on the remote host. For load sharing to be transparent, your ﬁles should be available on all hosts in the
cluster using a ﬁle sharing mechanism such as NFS or AFS. When your ﬁles are available on all hosts in the cluster, you can run your tasks on any host
without worrying about how your task will access ﬁles.
LSF can operate correctly in cases where these conditions are not met, but the results may not be what you expect. For example, the /tmp directory
is usually private on each host. If you copy a ﬁle into /tmp on a remote host, you can only read that ﬁle on the same remote host.
LSF can also be used when ﬁles are not available on all hosts. LSF provides the lsrcp command to copy ﬁles across LSF hosts. You can use pipes to
redirect the standard input and output of remote commands, or write scripts to copy the data ﬁles to the execution host.
Shell mode for remote execution
On UNIX, shell mode support is provided for running interactive applications through RES.
Not supported for Windows.
Shell mode support is required for running interactive shells or applications that redeﬁne the CTRL-C and CTRL-Z keys (for example, jove).
The -S option of lsrun, ch or lsgrun creates the remote task with shell mode support. The default is not to enable shell mode support.
Run windows
Some run windows are only applicable to batch jobs. Interactive jobs scheduled by LIM are controlled by another set of run windows.
Redirecting streams to ﬁles
About this task
By default, both standard error messages and standard output messages of interactive tasks are written to stdout on the submission host.
To separate stdout and stderr and redirect to separate ﬁles, set LSF_INTERACTIVE_STDERR=y in lsf.conf or as an environment variable.
Procedure
To redirect both stdout and stderr to different ﬁles with the parameter set:
lsrun mytask 2>mystderr 1>mystdout
The result of the above example is for stderr to be redirected to mystderr, and stdout to mystdout. Without LSF_INTERACTIVE_STDERR set, both
stderr and stdout will be redirected to mystdout.
Conﬁguring and sharing IBM Spectrum LSF job resources
Learn how to conﬁgure and allocate resources to your LSF jobs. Share compute resources fairly among users and projects. Apply resource allocation
limits to your jobs, manage host and user groups, reserve resources, and specify resource requirements for jobs.
About LSF resources
 The LSF system uses built-in and conﬁgured resources to track job resource requirements and schedule jobs according to the resources
available on individual hosts.
Representing job resources in LSF
 Learn how job resources are represented in LSF.
Plan-based scheduling and reservations
 Plan-based scheduling greatly improves the original scheduling and reservation features in LSF. Instead of looking only at current resource
availability, the scheduler can plan job placements for the near future. Reservations are then based on these planned allocation. Plan-based
scheduling is meant to be a replacement for legacy LSF reservation policies. When ALLOCATION_PLANNER is enabled, parameters related to
the old reservation features are ignored.
Distributing job resources to users in LSF
 Learn how users can share job resources through LSF.
Global resources
 Global resources are resources that are shared between all connected clusters.
456    IBM Spectrum LSF

About LSF resources
The LSF system uses built-in and conﬁgured resources to track job resource requirements and schedule jobs according to the resources available on
individual hosts.
Resource categories
 How LSF uses resources
 Jobs that are submitted through LSF have resource usage that is monitored while they are running. This information is used to enforce
resource usage limits and load thresholds as well as for fair share scheduling.
Resource categories
By values
Boolean resources Resources that denote the availability of speciﬁc features
Numerical resourcesResources that take numerical values, such as all the load indices, number of processors on a host, or host CPU factor
String resources Resources that take string values, such as host type, host model, host status
By the way values change
Dynamic ResourcesResources that change their values dynamically: host status and all the load indices.
Static Resources Resources that do not change their values: all resources except for load indices or host status.
By deﬁnitions
External ResourcesCustom resources deﬁned by user sites: external load indices and resources deﬁned in the lsf.shared ﬁle (shared resources).
Built-In ResourcesResources that are always deﬁned in LSF, such as load indices, number of CPUs, or total swap space.
By scope
Host-Based
ResourcesResources that are not associated with individual hosts in the same way, but are owned by the entire cluster, or a subset of hosts
within the cluster, such as shared ﬁle systems. An application can access such a resource from any host which is conﬁgured to
share it, but doing so affects its value as seen by other hosts.
Shared
Resources 
Boolean resources
Boolean resources (for example, server to denote LSF server hosts) have a value of one if they are deﬁned for a host, and zero if they are not deﬁned
for the host. Use Boolean resources to conﬁgure host attributes to be used in selecting hosts to run jobs. For example:
Machines may have different types and versions of operating systems.
Machines may play different roles in the system, such as ﬁle server or compute server.
Some machines may have special-purpose devices that are needed by some applications.
Certain software packages may be available only on some of the machines.
Specify a Boolean resource in a resource requirement selection string of a job to select only hosts that can run the job.
Some examples of Boolean resources:
Resource Name Describes Meaning of Example Name
cs Role in cluster Compute server
fs Role in cluster File server
solaris Operating system Solaris operating system
frame Available softwareFrameMaker license
IBM Spectrum LSF 457

Shared resources
Shared resources are conﬁgured resources that are not tied to a speciﬁc host, but are associated with the entire cluster, or a speciﬁc subset of hosts
within the cluster. For example:
Disk space on a ﬁle server which is mounted by several machines
The physical network connecting the hosts
LSF does not contain any built-in shared resources. All shared resources must be conﬁgured by the LSF administrator. A shared resource may be
conﬁgured to be dynamic or static. In the preceding example, the total space on the shared disk may be static while the amount of space currently
free is dynamic. A site may also conﬁgure the shared resource to report numeric, string, or Boolean values.
An application may use a shared resource by running on any host from which that resource is accessible. For example, in a cluster in which each host
has a local disk but can also access a disk on a ﬁle server, the disk on the ﬁle server is a shared resource, and the local disk is a host-based resource.
In contrast to host-based resources such as memory or swap space, using a shared resource from one machine affects the availability of that
resource as seen by other machines. There is one value for the entire cluster which measures the utilization of the shared resource, but each host-
based resource is measured separately.
The following restrictions apply to the use of shared resources in LSF products.
A shared resource cannot be used as a load threshold in the Hosts section of the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle.
A shared resource cannot be used in the loadSched/loadStop thresholds, or in the STOP_COND or RESUME_COND parameters in the queue
deﬁnition in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
How LSF uses resources
Jobs that are submitted through LSF have resource usage that is monitored while they are running. This information is used to enforce resource
usage limits and load thresholds as well as for fair share scheduling.
The following is the kind of information that LSF collects about resources:
Total CPU time consumed by all processes in the job
Total resident memory usage in KB of all currently running processes in a job
Total virtual memory usage in KB of all currently running processes in a job
Currently active process group ID in a job
Currently active processes in a job
On UNIX and Linux, job-level resource usage is collected through a special process called PIM (Process Information Manager). PIM is managed
internally by LSF.
See Memory and swap limit enforcement based on Linux cgroup memory subsystem for more information about memory usage and process
tracking.
Representing job resources in LSF
Learn how job resources are represented in LSF.
Batch built-in resources
 The slots keyword lets you schedule jobs on the host with the fewest free slots ﬁrst. This feature is useful for people who want to pack
sequential jobs onto hosts with the least slots ﬁrst, ensuring that more hosts will be available to run parallel jobs. slots (unused slots) is
supported in the select[] and order[] sections of the resource requirement string.
Static resources
 Static resources are built-in resources that represent host information that does not change over time, such as the maximum RAM available to
user processes or the number of processors in a machine. Most static resources are determined by the LIM at start-up time, or when LSF
detects hardware conﬁguration changes.
Load indices
 Load indices are built-in resources that measure the availability of static or dynamic, non-shared resources on hosts in the LSF cluster.
About conﬁgured resources
 LSF schedules jobs that are based on available resources. There are many resources that are built into LSF, but you can also add your own
resources, and then use them same way as built-in resources.
Conﬁgure host resources
 Add and remove hosts in your cluster. Conﬁgure LSF to run batch jobs on dynamic hosts. Conﬁgure a host to run one job at a time.
Share resources in queues
 Learn how to conﬁgure LSF queues. Use LSF commands to control queues (close, open, activate, inactivate). Conﬁgure dispatch and run
windows in queues. Restrict which hosts can use queues. Restrict the job size requested by parallel jobs in a queue. Add queue administrators
and give users access to queues. Control job order within queues and switch jobs from one queue to another. Conﬁgure an exclusive queue.
458    IBM Spectrum LSF

Share resources with application proﬁles
Application proﬁles improve the management of applications by separating scheduling policies (for example, job preemption and fair share
scheduling) from application-level requirements, such as pre-execution and post-execution commands, resource limits, or job controls.
Batch built-in resources
The slots keyword lets you schedule jobs on the host with the fewest free slots ﬁrst. This feature is useful for people who want to pack sequential
jobs onto hosts with the least slots ﬁrst, ensuring that more hosts will be available to run parallel jobs. slots (unused slots) is supported in the
select[] and order[] sections of the resource requirement string.
slots
slots is the number of unused slots on the host deﬁned according to these values from bhosts for the host:
slots (Unused slots) = MAX – NJOBS
where NJOBS = RUN + SSUSP + USUSP + RSV
maxslots
maxslots is the maximum number of slots that can be used on a host according to the value from bhosts for the host.
maxslots (max slot) = MAX
where MAX is the value of the “MAX” column that is displayed by bhosts
maxslots is supported in the select[], order[] and same[] sections of the resource requirement string.
You can specify slots in the order string. In the following example for reversed slots based ordering, hostA and hostB have 20 total slots each.
There are currently no jobs in cluster. Then,
job1: bsub -n 10 sleep 10000 - runs on hostA
job2: bsub -n 1 sleep 10000 - might run on hostB
job3: bsub -n 20 sleep 10000 - will pend
If job2 runs on hostB, we can get a situation where job3, a large parallel job, never has a chance to run because neither host has 20 slots
available. Essentially, job2 blocks job3 from running. However, with order[-slots]:
job1: bsub -n 10 -R “order[-slots]” sleep 10000 - runs on hostA
job2: bsub -n 1 -R “order[-slots]” sleep 10000 - will run on hostA
job3: bsub -n 20 -R “order[-slots]” sleep 10000 - will run on hostB
With reversed slots based ordering, job2 will run on hostA because hostA has the least available slots at this time (10 available versus 20
available for hostB). This allows job3 to run on hostB.
You can also specify maxslots in the order string. In the following example for reversed order on maxslots, hostA has 20 total slots, but hostB
only has 10 slots in total, and currently no jobs in the cluster. Then,
job1: bsub -n 10 sleep 10000 - might run on hostA
job2: bsub -n 20 sleep 10000 - will pend
After job1 runs, both hostA and hostB have 10 available slots. Thus, job2 will pend (this is true with or without order[-slots]). However,
with order[-maxslots]:
job1: bsub -n 10 -R “order[-maxslots]” sleep 10000 - will run on hostB
job2: bsub -n 20 -R “order[-maxslots]” sleep 10000 - will run on hostA
With reversed maxslots based order, job1 will run on hostB because it has fewer total slots than hostA. This saves hostA for the larger parallel
job like job2.
You can have the combined effect of reverse ordering with slots and maxslots by using order[-slots:maxslots].
Static resources
Static resources are built-in resources that represent host information that does not change over time, such as the maximum RAM available to user
processes or the number of processors in a machine. Most static resources are determined by the LIM at start-up time, or when LSF detects
hardware conﬁguration changes.
IBM Spectrum LSF 459

Static resources can be used to select appropriate hosts for particular jobs based on binary architecture, relative CPU speed, and system
conﬁguration.
The resources ncpus, nprocs, ncores, nthreads, maxmem, maxswp, and maxtmp are not static on UNIX hosts that support dynamic hardware
reconﬁguration.
Static resources reported by LIM
Index Measures Units Determined by
type host type string conﬁguration
model host model string conﬁguration
hname host name string conﬁguration
cpuf CPU factor relative conﬁguration
server host can run remote jobs Boolean conﬁguration
rexpri execution priority nice(2) argumentconﬁguration
ncpus number of processors processors LIM
ndisks number of local disks disks LIM
nprocs number of physical processors processors LIM
ncores number of cores per physical processorcores LIM
nthreads number of threads per processor core threads LIM
maxmem maximum RAM MB LIM
maxswp maximum swap space MB LIM
maxtmp maximum space in /tmp MB LIM
Host type (type)
Host type is a combination of operating system and CPU architecture. All computers that run the same operating system on the same computer
architecture are of the same type. You can add custom host types in the HostType section of lsf.shared. This alphanumeric value can be up to 39
characters long.
An example of host type is LINUX86.
Host model (model)
Host model is the combination of host type and CPU speed (CPU factor) of your machine. All hosts of the same relative type and speed are assigned
the same host model. You can add custom host models in the HostModel section of lsf.shared. This alphanumeric value can be up to 39 characters
long.
An example of host model is Intel_IA64.
Host name (hname)
Host name speciﬁes the name with which the host identiﬁes itself.
CPU factor (cpuf)
The CPU factor (frequently shortened to cpuf) represents the speed of the host CPU relative to other hosts in the cluster. For example, if one
processor is twice the speed of another, its CPU factor should be twice as large. For multiprocessor hosts, the CPU factor is the speed of a single
processor; LSF automatically scales the host CPU load to account for additional processors. The CPU factors are detected automatically or deﬁned by
the administrator.
Server
The server static resource is Boolean. It has the following values:
1 if the host is conﬁgured to run jobs from other hosts
0 if the host is an LSF client for submitting jobs to other hosts
Number of CPUs (ncpus)
By default, the number of CPUs represents the number of cores a machine has. As most CPUs consist of multiple cores, threads, and processors,
ncpus can be deﬁned by the cluster administrator (either globally or per-host) to consider one of the following:
Processors
460    IBM Spectrum LSF

Processors and cores
Processors, cores, and threads
Globally, this deﬁnition is controlled by the parameter EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf or ego.conf. The default behavior for ncpus is to consider the
number of cores (EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=cores).
Note:
1. On a machine running AIX, ncpus detection is different. Under AIX, the number of detected physical processors is always 1, whereas the
number of detected cores is the number of cores across all physical processors. Thread detection is the same as other operating systems (the
number of threads per core).
2. When PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the resource requirement string keyword ncpus refers to the number of slots instead of
the number of CPUs, however lshosts output continues to show ncpus as deﬁned by EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf.
Number of disks (ndisks)
The number of disks speciﬁes the number of local disks a machine has, determined by the LIM.
Maximum memory (maxmem)
Maximum memory is the total available memory of a machine, measured in megabytes (MB).
Maximum swap (maxswp)
Maximum swap is the total available swap space a machine has, measured in megabytes (MB).
Maximum temporary space (maxtmp)
Maximum temporary space is the total temporary space that a machine has, measured in megabytes (MB).
How LIM detects cores, threads, and processors
 Traditionally, the value of ncpus has been equal to the number of physical CPUs.
Deﬁning ncpus: processors, cores, or threads
 Deﬁning computation of ncpus on dynamic hosts
 Deﬁning computation of ncpus on static hosts
 
How LIM detects cores, threads, and processors
Traditionally, the value of ncpus has been equal to the number of physical CPUs.
However, many CPUs consist of multiple cores and threads, so the traditional 1:1 mapping is no longer useful. A more useful approach is to set ncpus
to equal one of the following:
The number of processors
Cores: the number of cores (per processor) * the number of processors (this is the ncpus default setting)
Threads: the number of threads (per core) * the number of cores (per processor) * the number of processors
A cluster administrator globally deﬁnes how ncpus is computed using the EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS parameter in lsf.conf or ego.conf (instead of
LSF_ENABLE_DUALCORE in lsf.conf, or EGO_ENABLE_DUALCORE in ego.conf).
LIM detects and stores the number of processors, cores, and threads for all supported architectures. The following diagram illustrates the flow of
information between daemons, CPUs, and other components.
IBM Spectrum LSF 461

Although the ncpus computation is applied globally, it can be overridden on a per-host basis.
To correctly detect processors, cores, and threads, LIM assumes that all physical processors on a single machine are of the same type.
In cases where CPU architectures and operating system combinations may not support accurate processor, core, thread detection, LIM uses the
defaults of 1 processor, 1 core per physical processor, and 1 thread per core. If LIM detects that it is running in a virtual environment (for example,
VMware®), each detected processor is similarly reported (as a single-core, single-threaded, physical processor).
LIM only detects hardware that is recognized by the operating system. LIM detection uses processor- or OS-speciﬁc techniques (for example, the
Intel CPUID instruction, or Solaris kstat()/core_id). If the operating system does not recognize a CPU or core (for example, if an older OS does not
recognize a quad-core processor and instead detects it as dual-core), then LIM does not recognize it either.
Note: RQL normalization never considers threads. Consider a hyper-thread enabled Pentium: Threads are not full-fledged CPUs, so considering them
as CPUs would artiﬁcially lower the system load.
ncpus detection on AIX
On a machine running AIX, detection of ncpus is different. Under AIX, the number of detected physical processors is always 1, whereas the number
of detected cores is always the number of cores across all physical processors. Thread detection is the same as other operating systems (the number
of threads per core).
Deﬁning ncpus: processors, cores, or threads
About this task
A cluster administrator must deﬁne how ncpus is computed. Usually, the number of available job slots is equal to the value of ncpus; however, slots
can be redeﬁned at the EGO resource group level. The ncpus deﬁnition is globally applied across the cluster.
Procedure
1. Open lsf.conf or ego.conf.
UNIX and Linux:
LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.conf
LSF_CONFDIR/ego/cluster_name/kernel/ego.conf
Windows:
LSF_CONFDIR\lsf.conf
LSF_CONFDIR\ego\cluster_name\kernel\ego.conf
462    IBM Spectrum LSF

Important: You can set EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in ego.conf only if EGO is enabled in the LSF cluster. If EGO is not enabled, you must set
EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf.
2. Deﬁne the parameter EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=[procs | cores | threads].
Set it to one of the following:
procs (where ncpus=procs)
cores (where ncpus=procs * cores)
threads (where ncpus=procs * cores * threads)
By default, ncpus is set to cores (number of cores).
Note: In clusters with older LIMs that do not recognize cores and threads, EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS is ignored. In clusters where only the
management host LIM recognizes cores and threads, the management host LIM assigns default values (for example, in LSF 6.2: 1 core, 1
thread).
3. Save and close lsf.conf or ego.conf.
Results
Tip: As a best practice, set EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS instead of EGO_ENABLE_DUALCORE. The functionality of EGO_ENABLE_DUALCORE=y is preserved
by setting EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=cores.
Interaction with LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES in lsf.conf
If EGO is enabled, and EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES is set in ego.conf and LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES is set in lsf.conf, EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES takes
precedence.
Deﬁning computation of ncpus on dynamic hosts
About this task
The ncpus global deﬁnition can be overridden on speciﬁed dynamic and static hosts in the cluster.
Procedure
1. Open lsf.conf or ego.conf.
UNIX and Linux:
LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.conf
LSF_CONFDIR/ego/cluster_name/kernel/ego.conf
Windows:
LSF_CONFDIR\lsf.conf
LSF_CONFDIR\ego\cluster_name\kernel\ego.conf
Important: You can set EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES in ego.conf only if EGO is enabled in the LSF cluster. If EGO is not enabled, you must set
EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES in lsf.conf.
2. Deﬁne the parameter EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES="[resource resource_name]".
Set resource_name to one of the following:
deﬁne_ncpus_procs
deﬁne_ncpus_cores
deﬁne_ncpus_threads
Note: Resource deﬁnitions are mutually exclusive. Choose only one resource deﬁnition per host.
For example:
Windows: EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES="[type NTX86] [resource deﬁne_ncpus_procs]"
Linux: EGO_LOCAL_RESOURCES="[resource deﬁne_ncpus_cores]"
3. Save and close ego.conf.
Results
Note: In multi-cluster environments, if ncpus is deﬁned on a per-host basis (thereby overriding the global setting) the deﬁnition is applied to all
clusters that the host is a part of. In contrast, globally deﬁned ncpus settings only take effect within the cluster for which EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS is
deﬁned.
Deﬁning computation of ncpus on static hosts
IBM Spectrum LSF 463

About this task
The ncpus global deﬁnition can be overridden on speciﬁed dynamic and static hosts in the cluster.
Procedure
1. Open lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Linux: LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Windows: LSF_CONFDIR\lsf.cluster.cluster_name
2. Find the host you for which you want to deﬁne ncpus computation. In the RESOURCES column, add one of the following deﬁnitions:
deﬁne_ncpus_procs
deﬁne_ncpus_cores
deﬁne_ncpus_threads
Note: Resource deﬁnitions are mutually exclusive. Choose only one resource deﬁnition per host.
For example:
Begin Host 
HOSTNAME  model    type        r1m  mem  swp  RESOURCES    #Keywords 
#lemon    PC200    LINUX86     3.5  1    2   (linux) 
#plum     !        NTX86       3.5  1    2   (nt) 
Host_name !        NTX86        -   -    -   (define_ncpus_procs) 
End     Host
3. Save and close lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
4. Restart the management host.
Results
Note: In multi-cluster environments, if ncpus is deﬁned on a per-host basis (thereby overriding the global setting) the deﬁnition is applied to all
clusters that the host is a part of. In contrast, globally deﬁned ncpus settings only take effect within the cluster for which EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS is
deﬁned.
Load indices
Load indices are built-in resources that measure the availability of static or dynamic, non-shared resources on hosts in the LSF cluster.
Load indices that are built into the LIM are updated at ﬁxed time intervals.
External load indices are deﬁned and conﬁgured by the LSF administrator, who writes an external load information manager (elim) executable. The
elim collects the values of the external load indices and sends these values to the LIM.
Load indices collected by LIM
Index Measures Units Direction Averaged overUpdate Interval
status host status string 15 seconds
r15s run queue length processes increasing 15 seconds 15 seconds
r1m run queue length processes increasing 1 minute 15 seconds
r15m run queue length processes increasing 15 minutes 15 seconds
ut CPU utilization percent increasing 1 minute 15 seconds
pg paging activity pages in + pages out per secondincreasing 1 minute 15 seconds
ls logins users increasing N/A 30 seconds
it idle time minutes decreasing N/A 30 seconds
swp available swap space MB decreasing N/A 15 seconds
mem available memory MB decreasing N/A 15 seconds
tmp available space in temporary ﬁle systemMB decreasing N/A 120 seconds
io disk I/O (shown by lsload -l) KB per second increasing 1 minute 15 seconds
name external load index conﬁgured by LSF administrator site-deﬁned
Status
The status index is a string indicating the current status of the host. This status applies to the LIM and RES.
The possible values for status are:
464    IBM Spectrum LSF

Status Description
ok The host is available to accept remote jobs. The LIM can select the host for remote execution.
-ok When the status of a host is preceded by a dash (-), it means that LIM is available but RES is not running on that host or is not
responding.
busy The host is overloaded (busy) because a load index exceeded a conﬁgured threshold. An asterisk (*) marks the offending index.
LIM will not select the host for interactive jobs.
lockW The host is locked by its run window. Use lshosts to display run windows.
lockU The host is locked by an LSF administrator or root.
unavail The host is down or the LIM on the host is not running or is not responding.
Note: The term available is frequently used in command output titles and headings. Available means that a host is in any state except unavail.
This means an available host could be, locked, busy, or ok.
CPU run queue lengths (r15s, r1m, r15m)
The r15s, r1m and r15m load indices are the 15-second, 1-minute, and 15-minute average CPU run queue lengths. This is the average number of
processes ready to use the CPU during the given interval.
On UNIX, run queue length indices are not necessarily the same as the load averages printed by the uptime(1) command; uptime load averages on
some platforms also include processes that are in short-term wait states (such as paging or disk I/O).
Effective run queue length
On multiprocessor systems, more than one process can execute at a time. LSF scales the run queue value on multiprocessor systems to make
the CPU load of uniprocessors and multiprocessors comparable. The scaled value is called the effective run queue length.
Use lsload -E to view the effective run queue length.
Normalized run queue length
LSF also adjusts the CPU run queue that is based on the relative speeds of the processors (the CPU factor). The normalized run queue length is
adjusted for both number of processors and CPU speed. The host with the lowest normalized run queue length runs a CPU-intensive job the
fastest.
Use lsload -N to view the normalized CPU run queue lengths.
CPU utilization (ut)
The ut index measures CPU utilization, which is the percentage of time spent running system and user code. A host with no process running has a ut
value of 0 percent; a host on which the CPU is completely loaded has a ut of 100 percent.
Paging rate (pg)
The pg index gives the virtual memory paging rate in pages per second. This index is closely tied to the amount of available RAM memory and the
total size of the processes running on a host; if there is not enough RAM to satisfy all processes, the paging rate is high. Paging rate is a good measure
of how a machine responds to interactive use; a machine that is paging heavily feels very slow.
Login sessions (ls)
The ls index gives the number of users logged in. Each user is counted once, no matter how many times they have logged into the host.
Interactive idle time (it)
On UNIX, the it index is the interactive idle time of the host, in minutes. Idle time is measured from the last input or output on a directly attached
terminal or a network pseudo-terminal supporting a login session. This does not include activity directly through the X server such as CAD
applications or emacs windows, except on Solaris and HP-UX systems.
On Windows, the it index is based on the time a screen saver has been active on a particular host.
Temporary directories (tmp)
The tmp index is the space available in MB or in units set in LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS in lsf.conf) on the ﬁle system that contains the temporary
directory:
/tmp on UNIX
C:\temp on Windows
Swap space (swp)
IBM Spectrum LSF 465

The swp index gives the currently available virtual memory (swap space) in MB or units set in LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS in lsf.conf). This represents the
largest process that can be started on the host.
Memory (mem)
The mem index is an estimate of the real memory currently available to user processes, measured in MB or in units set in LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS in
lsf.conf). This represents the approximate size of the largest process that could be started on a host without causing the host to start paging.
LIM reports the amount of free memory available. LSF calculates free memory as a sum of physical free memory, cached memory, buffered memory,
and an adjustment value. The command vmstat also reports free memory but displays these values separately. There may be a difference between
the free memory reported by LIM and the free memory reported by vmstat because of virtual memory behavior variations among operating systems.
You can write an ELIM that overrides the free memory values that are returned by LIM.
I/O rate (io)
The io index measures I/O throughput to disks attached directly to this host, in KB per second. It does not include I/O to disks that are mounted
from other hosts.
View information about load indices
lsinfo -l
The lsinfo -l command displays all information available about load indices in the system. You can also specify load indices on the command
line to display information about selected indices:
lsinfo -l swp 
RESOURCE_NAME:  swp 
DESCRIPTION: Available swap space (Mbytes) (alias: swap) 
TYPE      ORDER   INTERVAL  BUILTIN  DYNAMIC  RELEASE 
Numeric     Dec         60      Yes      Yes       NO
lsload -l
The lsload -l command displays the values of all load indices. External load indices are conﬁgured by your LSF administrator:
lsload 
HOST_NAME  status  r15s  r1m  r15m  ut   pg   ls  it  tmp  swp   mem 
hostN      ok      0.0   0.0  0.1   1%   0.0  1   224 43M  67M   3M 
hostK      -ok     0.0   0.0  0.0   3%   0.0  3   0   38M  40M   7M 
hostF      busy    0.1   0.1  0.3   7%   *17  6   0   9M   23M   28M 
hostG      busy    *6.2  6.9  9.5   85%  1.1  30  0   5M   400M  385M 
hostV      unavail
About conﬁgured resources
LSF schedules jobs that are based on available resources. There are many resources that are built into LSF, but you can also add your own resources,
and then use them same way as built-in resources.
For maximum flexibility, you should characterize your resources clearly enough so that users have satisfactory choices. For example, if some of your
machines are connected to both Ethernet and FDDI, while others are only connected to Ethernet, then you probably want to deﬁne a resource called
fddi and associate the fddi resource with machines connected to FDDI. This way, users can specify resource fddi if they want their jobs to run on
machines that are connected to FDDI.
Adding new resources to your cluster
 Conﬁguring the lsf.shared resource section
 Conﬁguring lsf.cluster.cluster_name Host section
 Conﬁguring lsf.cluster.cluster_name ResourceMap section
 Reserving a static shared resource
 External load indices
 External load indices report the values of dynamic external resources. A dynamic external resource is a customer-deﬁned resource with a
numeric value that changes over time, such as the space available in a directory. Use the external load indices feature to make the values of
dynamic external resources available to LSF, or to override the values reported for an LSF built-in load index.
External static load indices
 External static load indices report the values of static external resources. A static external resource is a user-deﬁned resource which, once
detected by LIM at start-up time, has a value that does not change, therefore, deﬁne an initial value for these resources. Use the external
static load indices feature to make the values of user-deﬁned static numeric or string resources available to LSF or to override the user-
deﬁned static resources.
Modify a built-in load index
 An elim executable can be used to override the value of a built-in load index.
466    IBM Spectrum LSF

Adding new resources to your cluster
Procedure
1. Log in to any host in the cluster as the LSF administrator.
2. Deﬁne new resources in the Resource section of lsf.shared. Specify at least a name and a brief description, which is displayed to a user by
lsinfo.
3. For static Boolean resources and static or dynamic string resources, for all hosts that have the new resources, add the resource name to the
RESOURCES column in the Host section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
4. For shared resources, for all hosts that have the new resources, associate the resources with the hosts (you might also have a reason to
conﬁgure non-shared resources in this section).
5. Run lsadmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure LIM.
6. Run badmin mbdrestart to restart mbatchd.
Conﬁguring the lsf.shared resource section
About this task
Deﬁne conﬁgured resources in the Resource section of lsf.shared. There is no distinction between shared and non-shared resources. When optional
attributes are not speciﬁed, the resource is treated as static and Boolean.
Procedure
1. Specify a name and description for the resource, using the keywords RESOURCENAME and DESCRIPTION.
Resource names are case sensitive and can be up to 39 characters in length, with the following restrictions:
Cannot begin with a number
Cannot contain the following special characters
:  .  (  )  [  +  - *  /  !  &  | <  >  @  = ,
Cannot be any of the following reserved names:
cpu cpuf io logins ls idle maxmem maxswp maxtmp type model  
status it mem ncpus nprocs ncores nthreads 
define_ncpus_cores define_ncpus_procs define_ncpus_threads 
ndisks pg r15m r15s r1m swap swp tmp ut local 
dchost jobvm
Cannot begin with inf or nan (uppercase or lowercase). Use -R "defined(infxx)" or -R "defined(nanxx)"instead if required.
For Solaris machines, the keyword int is reserved and cannot be used.
2. Optional. Specify optional attributes for the resource.
a. Set the resource type (TYPE = Boolean | String | Numeric). Default is Boolean.
b. For dynamic resources, set the update interval (INTERVAL, in seconds).
c. For numeric resources, set so that a higher value indicates greater load (INCREASING = Y)
d. For numeric shared resources, set so that LSF releases the resource when a job using the resource is suspended (RELEASE = Y).
e. Set resources as consumable in the CONSUMABLE column.
Static and dynamic numeric resources can be speciﬁed as consumable. A non-consumable resource should not be releasable and
should be usable in order, select and same sections of a resource requirement string.
Defaults for built-in indices:
The following are consumable: r15s, r1m, r15m, ut, pg, io, ls, it, tmp, swp, mem.
All other built-in static resources are not consumable. (For example, ncpus, ndisks, maxmem, maxswp, maxtmp, cpuf, type,
model, status, rexpri, server, hname).
Defaults for external shared resources:
All numeric resources are consumable.
String and boolean resources are not consumable.
Note: Non-consumable resources are ignored in rusage sections. LSF rejects resource requirement strings where an rusage section
contains a non-consumable resource.
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME  TYPE    INTERVAL INCREASING CONSUMABLE DESCRIPTION  # Keywords 
   patchrev   Numeric  ()        Y         ()         (Patch revision) 
   specman    Numeric  ()        N         ()         (Specman) 
   switch     Numeric  ()        Y         N          (Network Switch) 
   rack       String   ()        ()        ()         (Server room rack) 
   owner      String   ()        ()        ()         (Owner of the host) 
IBM Spectrum LSF 467

   elimres    Numeric  10        Y         ()         (elim generated index) 
End Resource
3. Run lsinfo -l to view consumable resources.
lsinfo -l switch 
RESOURCE_NAME:  switch 
DESCRIPTION: Network Switch 
TYPE    ORDER   INTERVAL  BUILTIN  DYNAMIC  RELEASE CONSUMABLE 
Numeric   Inc          0       No       No      No         No 
  
lsinfo -l specman 
RESOURCE_NAME:  specman 
DESCRIPTION: Specman 
TYPE    ORDER   INTERVAL  BUILTIN  DYNAMIC  RELEASE CONSUMABLE 
Numeric   Dec          0       No       No      Yes        Yes
Resources required for JSDL
The following resources are pre-deﬁned to support the submission of jobs using JSDL ﬁles.
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME TYPE  INTERVAL INCREASING DESCRIPTION 
osname       String   600   ()        (OperatingSystemName) 
osver        String   600   ()        (OperatingSystemVersion) 
cpuarch      String   600   ()        (CPUArchitectureName) 
cpuspeed     Numeric  60    Y         (IndividualCPUSpeed) 
bandwidth    Numeric  60    Y         (IndividualNetworkBandwidth) 
End Resource
Conﬁguring lsf.cluster. c l u s t e r _ n a m e Host section
About this task
The Host section is the only required section in lsf.cluster.cluster_name. It lists all the hosts in the cluster and gives conﬁguration information for
each host. The Host section must precede the ResourceMap section.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne the resource names as strings in the Resource section of lsf.shared.
List any number of resources, enclosed in parentheses and separated by blanks or tabs.
Use the RESOURCES column to associate static Boolean resources with particular hosts.
2. Optional. To deﬁne shared resources across hosts, use the ResourceMap section.
String resources cannot contain spaces. Static numeric and string resources both use following syntax:
resource_name=resource_value
resource_value must be alphanumeric.
For dynamic numeric and string resources, use resource_name directly.
Note: If resources are deﬁned in both the resource column of the Host section and the ResourceMap section, the deﬁnition in the resource
column takes effect.
Example
Begin   Host 
HOSTNAME  model type server r1m  mem  swp RESOURCES  #Keywords 
hostA     !     !    1      3.5  ()   ()  (mg elimres patchrev=3 owner=user1) 
hostB     !     !    1      3.5  ()   ()  (specman=5 switch=1 owner=test) 
hostC     !     !    1      3.5  ()   ()  (switch=2 rack=rack2_2_3 owner=test) 
hostD     !     !    1      3.5  ()   ()  (switch=1 rack=rack2_2_3 owner=test) 
End     Host
Conﬁguring lsf.cluster. c l u s t e r _ n a m e ResourceMap section
About this task
468    IBM Spectrum LSF

Resources are associated with the hosts for which they are deﬁned in the ResourceMap section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Procedure
For each resource, specify the name (RESOURCENAME) and the hosts that have it (LOCATION).
Note: If the ResourceMap section is not deﬁned, then any dynamic resources speciﬁed in lsf.shared are not tied to speciﬁc hosts, but are shared
across all hosts in the cluster.
RESOURCENAME: The name of the resource, as deﬁned in lsf.shared.
LOCATION: The hosts that share the resource. For a static resource, you must deﬁne an initial value here as well. Do not deﬁne a value for a
dynamic resource.
Syntax:
([resource_value@][host_name... | all [~host_name]... | others | default] ...)
For resource_value, square brackets are not valid.
For static resources, you must include the resource value, which indicates the quantity of the resource.
Type square brackets around the list of hosts, as shown. You can omit the parenthesis if you only specify one set of hosts.
The same host cannot be in more than one instance of a resource, as indicated by square brackets. All hosts within the instance share
the quantity of the resource indicated by its value.
The keyword all refers to all the server hosts in the cluster, collectively. Use the not operator (~) to exclude hosts or host groups.
The keyword others refers to all hosts not otherwise listed in the instance.
The keyword default refers to each host in the cluster, individually.
Most resources speciﬁed in the ResourceMap section are interpreted by LSF commands as shared resources, which are displayed using lsload -s or
lshosts -s.
The exceptions are:
Non-shared static resources
Dynamic numeric resources speciﬁed using the default keyword. These are host-based resources and behave like the built-in load indices
such as mem and swp. They are viewed using lsload -l or lsload -I.
Example
A cluster consists of hosts host1, host2, and host3.
Begin ResourceMap 
RESOURCENAME   LOCATION 
verilog        (5@[all ~host1 ~host2]) 
synopsys       (2@[host1 host2] 2@[others]) 
console        (1@[host1] 1@[host2] 1@[host3]) 
xyz            (1@[default]) 
End ResourceMap
In this example:
Five units of the verilog resource are deﬁned on host3 only (all hosts except host1 and host2).
Two units of the synopsys resource are shared between host1 and host2. 2 more units of the synopsys resource are deﬁned on host3
(shared among all the remaining hosts in the cluster).
One unit of the console resource is deﬁned on each host in the cluster (assigned explicitly). 1 unit of the xyz resource is deﬁned on each host
in the cluster (assigned with the keyword default).
Restriction: For Solaris machines, the keyword int is reserved.
Resources required for JSDL
Procedure
To submit jobs using JSDL ﬁles, you must uncomment the following lines:
RESOURCENAME   LOCATION 
osname         [default] 
osver          [default] 
cpuarch        [default] 
cpuspeed       [default] 
bandwidth      [default]
Reserving a static shared resource
IBM Spectrum LSF 469

About this task
Use resource reservation to prevent over-committing static shared resources when scheduling.
Procedure
To indicate that a shared resource is to be reserved while a job is running, specify the resource name in the rusage section of the resource
requirement string.
Example
You conﬁgured licenses for the Verilog application as a resource called verilog_lic. To submit a job to run on a host when there is a license
available:
bsub -R "select[defined(verilog_lic)] rusage[verilog_lic=1]" myjob
If the job can be placed, the license it uses are reserved until the job completes.
External load indices
External load indices report the values of dynamic external resources. A dynamic external resource is a customer-deﬁned resource with a numeric
value that changes over time, such as the space available in a directory. Use the external load indices feature to make the values of dynamic external
resources available to LSF, or to override the values reported for an LSF built-in load index.
If you have speciﬁc workload or resource requirements at your site, the LSF administrator can deﬁne external resources. You can use both built-in
and external resources for job scheduling and host selection.
About external load indices
 LSF bases job scheduling and host selection decisions on the resources available within your cluster. A resource is a characteristic of a host
(such as available memory) or a cluster that LSF uses to make job scheduling and host selection decisions.
Conﬁguration to enable external load indices
 Enable and conﬁgure the parameters to use external load indices.
External load indices behavior
 Conﬁguration to modify external load indices
 External load indices commands
 
About external load indices
LSF bases job scheduling and host selection decisions on the resources available within your cluster. A resource is a characteristic of a host (such as
available memory) or a cluster that LSF uses to make job scheduling and host selection decisions.
A static resource has a value that does not change, such as a host’s maximum swap space. A dynamic resource has a numeric value that changes over
time, such as a host’s currently available swap space. Load indices supply the values of dynamic resources to a host’s load information manager
(LIM), which periodically collects those values.
LSF has a number of built-in load indices that measure the values of dynamic, host-based resources (resources that exist on a single host); for
example, CPU, memory, disk space, and I/O. You can also deﬁne shared resources (resources that hosts in your cluster share) and make these values
available to LSF to use for job scheduling decisions.
If you have speciﬁc workload or resource requirements at your site, the LSF administrator can deﬁne external resources. You can use both built-in
and external resources for LSF job scheduling and host selection.
To supply the LIM with the values of dynamic external resources, either host-based or shared, the LSF administrator writes a site-speciﬁc executable
called an external load information manager (elim) executable. The LSF administrator programs the elim to deﬁne external load indices, populate
those indices with the values of dynamic external resources, and return the indices and their values to stdout. An elim can be as simple as a small
script, or as complicated as a sophisticated C program.
Note: LSF does not include a default elim; you should write your own executable to meet the requirements of your site.
The following illustrations show the beneﬁts of using the external load indices feature.
Default behavior (feature not enabled)
470    IBM Spectrum LSF

With external load indices enabled
Scope
Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX
Windows
A mix of UNIX and Windows hosts
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster and must have the correct permissions to
successfully run jobs.
All elim executables run under the same user account as the load information manager (LIM)—by default, the LSF
administrator (lsfadmin) or root account.
External dynamic resources (host-based or shared) must be deﬁned in lsf.shared.
Conﬁguration to enable external load indices
Enable and conﬁgure the parameters to use external load indices.
To enable the use of external load indices, you must
Deﬁne the dynamic external resources in the lsf.shared ﬁle. By default, these resources are host-based (local to each host) until the LSF
administrator conﬁgures a resource-to-host mapping in the ResourceMap section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle. The presence of the dynamic
external resource in the lsf.shared and lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁles triggers LSF to start the elim executable ﬁles.
Map the external resources to hosts in your cluster in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle.
Important: You must run the lsadmin reconﬁg and badmin mbdrestart commands after any resource changes in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name
and lsf.shared ﬁles to synchronize resource information between the LIM and mbatchd daemons.
Create one or more elim executable ﬁles in the directory that is speciﬁed by the LSF_SERVERDIR parameter. LSF does not include a default
elim; write your own elim executable ﬁle to meet the requirements of your site.
IBM Spectrum LSF 471

Deﬁne a dynamic external resource
To deﬁne a dynamic external resource for which elim collects an external load index value, deﬁne the following parameters in the Resource
section of the lsf.shared ﬁle.
Map an external resource
Once external resources are deﬁned in lsf.shared, they must be mapped to hosts in the ResourceMap section of the lsf.cluster.cluster_name
ﬁle.
Create an elim executable ﬁle
You can write one or more elim executables. The load index names deﬁned in your elim executables must be the same as the external
resource names deﬁned in the lsf.shared conﬁguration ﬁle.
Overriding built-in load indices
An elim executable can be used to override the value of a built-in load index. For example, if your site stores temporary ﬁles in the /usr/tmp
directory, you might want to monitor the amount of space available in that directory. An elim can report the space available in the /usr/tmp
directory as the value for the tmp built-in load index.
Setting up an ELIM to support JSDL
To support the use of Job Submission Description Language (JSDL) ﬁles at job submission, LSF collects the following load indices.
Example of an elim executable ﬁle
See the section How environment variables determine elim hosts for an example of a simple elim script.
Deﬁne a dynamic external resource
To deﬁne a dynamic external resource for which elim collects an external load index value, deﬁne the following parameters in the Resource section
of the lsf.shared ﬁle.
Table 1. Parameters for dynamic external resources
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxDescription
lsf.shared RESOURCENAMEr
esource_nameSpeciﬁes the name of the external resource.
TYPENumeric Speciﬁes the type of external resource: Numeric resources have numeric values.
Specify Numeric for all dynamic resources.
INTERVALseconds Speciﬁes the interval for data collection by an elim.
For numeric resources, deﬁning an interval identiﬁes the resource as a dynamic resource with a
corresponding external load index.
Important: You must specify an interval: LSF treats a numeric resource with no interval as a static
resource and, therefore, does not collect load index values for that resource.
INCREASINGY | N Speciﬁes whether a larger value indicates a greater load.
Y: A larger value indicates a greater load. For example, if you deﬁne an external load index, the
larger the value, the heavier the load.
N: A larger value indicates a lighter load.
RELEASEY | N For shared resources only, speciﬁes whether LSF releases the resource when a job that uses the
resource is suspended.
Y: Releases the resource.
N: Holds the resource.
DESCRIPTIONdesc
riptionEnter a brief description of the resource.
The lsinfo command and the ls_info() API call return the contents of the DESCRIPTION parameter.
Map an external resource
Once external resources are deﬁned in lsf.shared, they must be mapped to hosts in the ResourceMap section of the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxDefault behavior
lsf.cluster.
cluster_nameRESOURCENAMEr
esource_nameSpeciﬁes the name of the external resource as deﬁned in the Resource section of lsf.shared.
472    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxDefault behavior
LOCATION
([all]) |
([all
~host_nam
e ...])Maps the resource to the management host only; all hosts share a single instance of the dynamic
external resource.
To prevent speciﬁc hosts from accessing the resource, use the not operator (~) and specify one or
more host names. All other hosts can access the resource.
[default] Maps the resource to all hosts in the cluster; every host has an instance of the dynamic external
resource.
If you use the default keyword for any external resource, all elim executable ﬁles in LSF_SERVERDIR
run on all hosts in the cluster. For information about how to control which elim executable ﬁles run on
each host, see the section How LSF determines which hosts should run an elim executable ﬁle.
([host_name ...])
| ([host_name ...]
[host_name ...])Maps the resource to one or more speciﬁc hosts.
To specify sets of hosts that share a dynamic external resource, enclose each set in square brackets ([
]) and use a space to separate each host name.
Create an elim executable ﬁle
You can write one or more elim executables. The load index names deﬁned in your elim executables must be the same as the external resource
names deﬁned in the lsf.shared conﬁguration ﬁle.
All elim executables must:
Be located in LSF_SERVERDIR and follow these naming conventions:
Operating system Naming convention
UNIX LSF_SERVERDIR\elim.application
Windows LSF_SERVERDIR\elim.application.exe
or
LSF_SERVERDIR\elim.application.bat
Restriction: The name elim.user is reserved for backward compatibility. Do not use the name elim.user for your application-speciﬁc elim.
Note: LSF invokes any elim that follows this naming convention: Move backup copies out of LSF_SERVERDIR or choose a name that does not
follow the convention. For example, use elim_backup instead of elim.backup.
Exit upon receipt of a SIGTERM signal from the load information manager (LIM).
Periodically output a load update string to stdout in the format number_indices index_name index_value [index_name
index_value ...] where
Value Deﬁnes
number_indices The number of external load indices that are collected by the elim.
index_name The name of the external load index.
index_value The external load index value that is returned by your elim.
For example, the string
3 tmp2 47.5 nio 344.0 tmp 5
reports three indices: tmp2, nio and tmp, with values 47.5, 344.0, and 5, respectively.
The load update string must be end with only one \n or only one space. In Windows, echo will add \n.
The load update string must report values between -INFINIT_LOAD and INFINIT_LOAD as deﬁned in the lsf.h header ﬁle.
The elim should ensure that the entire load update string is written successfully to stdout. Program the elim to exit if it fails to write the
load update string to stdout.
If the elim executable is a C program, check the return value of printf(3s).
If the elim executable is a shell script, check the return code of /bin/echo(1).
If the elim executable is implemented as a C program, use setbuf(3) during initialization to send unbuffered output to stdout.
Each LIM sends updated load information to the management host LIM every 15 seconds; the elim executable should write the load
update string at most once every 15 seconds. If the external load index values rarely change, program the elim to report the new values
only when a change is detected.
If you map any external resource as default in lsf.cluster.cluster_name, all elim executables in LSF_SERVERDIR run on all hosts in the cluster. If
LSF_SERVERDIR contains more than one elim executable, you should include a header that checks whether the elim is programmed to report values
IBM Spectrum LSF 473

for the resources expected on the host. For detailed information about using a checking header, see the section How environment variables
determine elim hosts.
Overriding built-in load indices
An elim executable can be used to override the value of a built-in load index. For example, if your site stores temporary ﬁles in the /usr/tmp directory,
you might want to monitor the amount of space available in that directory. An elim can report the space available in the /usr/tmp directory as the
value for the tmp built-in load index.
To override a built-in load index value, write an elim executable that periodically measures the value of the dynamic external resource and writes the
numeric value to standard output. The external load index must correspond to a numeric, dynamic external resource as deﬁned by TYPE and
INTERVAL in lsf.shared.
You can ﬁnd the built-in load index type and name in the lsinfo output.
For example, an elim collects available space under /usr/tmp as 20M. Then, it can report the value as available tmp space (the built-in load index
tmp) in the load update string: 1 tmp 20.
The following built-in load indices cannot be overridden by elim: logins, idle, cpu, and swap
Setting up an ELIM to support JSDL
To support the use of Job Submission Description Language (JSDL) ﬁles at job submission, LSF collects the following load indices.
Attribute name Attribute type Resource name
OperatingSystemName string osname
OperatingSystemVersion string osver
CPUArchitectureName string cpuarch
IndividualCPUSpeed int64 cpuspeed
IndividualNetworkBandwidthint64 bandwidth
(This is the maximum bandwidth).
The ﬁle elim.jsdl is automatically conﬁgured to collect these resources. To enable the use of elim.jsdl, uncomment the lines for these resources in the
ResourceMap section of the ﬁle lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Example of an elim executable ﬁle
See the section How environment variables determine elim hosts for an example of a simple elim script.
You can ﬁnd more elim examples in the LSF_MISC/examples directory. The elim.c ﬁle is an elim written in C. You can modify this example to collect
the external load indices that are required at your site.
External load indices behavior
How LSF manages multiple elim executables
The LSF administrator can write one elim executable to collect multiple external load indices, or the LSF administrator can divide external load index
collection among multiple elim executables. On each host, the load information manager (LIM) starts a management elim (MELIM), which manages
all elim executables on the host and reports the external load index values to the LIM. Speciﬁcally, the MELIM
Starts elim executables on the host. The LIM checks the ResourceMap section LOCATION settings (default, all, or host list) and directs the
MELIM to start elim executables on the corresponding hosts.
Note:
If the ResourceMap section contains even one resource mapped as default, and if there are multiple elim executables in LSF_SERVERDIR, the
MELIM starts all of the elim executables in LSF_SERVERDIR on all hosts in the cluster. Not all of the elim executables continue to run,
however. Those that use a checking header could exit with ELIM_ABORT_VALUE if they are not programmed to report values for the resources
listed in LSF_RESOURCES.
474    IBM Spectrum LSF

Restarts an elim if the elim exits. To prevent system-wide problems in case of a fatal error in the elim, the maximum restart frequency is once
every 90 seconds. The MELIM does not restart any elim that exits with ELIM_ABORT_VALUE.
Collects the load information reported by the elim executables.
Checks the syntax of load update strings before sending the information to the LIM.
Merges the load reports from each elim and sends the merged load information to the LIM. If there is more than one value reported for a
single resource, the MELIM reports the latest value.
Logs its activities and data into the log ﬁle LSF_LOGDIR/melim.log.host_name
Increases system reliability by buffering output from multiple elim executables; failure of one elim does not affect other elim executables
running on the same host.
How LSF determines which hosts should run an elim executable
LSF provides conﬁguration options to ensure that your elim executables run only when they can report the resources values expected on a host. This
maximizes system performance and simpliﬁes the implementation of external load indices. To control which hosts run elim executables, you
Must map external resource names to locations in lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Optionally, use the environment variables LSF_RESOURCES, LSF_MASTER, and ELIM_ABORT_VALUE in your elim executables
How resource mapping determines elim hosts
The following table shows how the resource mapping deﬁned in lsf.cluster.cluster_name determines the hosts on which your elim executables start.
If the speciﬁed
LOCATION is …Then the elim executables start on …
([all]) | ([all
~host_name …])The management host because all hosts in the cluster (except those identiﬁed by the not operator [~]) share a
single instance of the external resource.
[default] Every host in the cluster because the default setting identiﬁes the external resource as host-based.
If you use the default keyword for any external resource, all elim executables in LSF_SERVERDIR run on all hosts in
the cluster. For information about how to program an elim to exit when it cannot collect information about
resources on a host, see How environment variables determine elim hosts.
([host_name
…]) |
([host_name …]
[host_name …])On the speciﬁed hosts.
If you specify a set of hosts, the elim executables start on the ﬁrst host in the list. For example, if the LOCATION in
the ResourceMap section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name is ([hostA hostB hostC] [hostD hostE hostF]):
LSF starts the elim executables on hostA and hostD to report values for the resources shared by that set of
hosts.
If the host reporting the external load index values becomes unavailable, LSF starts the elim executables on
the next available host in the list. In this example, if hostA becomes unavailable, LSF starts the elim
executables on hostB.
If hostA becomes available again, LSF starts the elim executables on hostA and shuts down the elim
executables on hostB.
How environment variables determine elim hosts
If you use the default keyword for any external resource in lsf.cluster.cluster_name, all elim executables in LSF_SERVERDIR run on all hosts in the
cluster. You can control the hosts on which your elim executables run by using the environment variables LSF_MASTER, LSF_RESOURCES, and
ELIM_ABORT_VALUE. These environment variables provide a way to ensure that elim executables run only when they are programmed to report the
values for resources expected on a host.
LSF_MASTER—You can program your elim to check the value of the LSF_MASTER environment variable. The value is Y on the management
host and N on all other hosts. An elim executable can use this parameter to check the host on which the elim is currently running.
LSF_RESOURCES—When the LIM starts an MELIM on a host, the LIM checks the resource mapping deﬁned in the ResourceMap section of
lsf.cluster.cluster_name. Based on the mapping location (default, all, or a host list), the LIM sets LSF_RESOURCES to the list of resources
expected on the host.
When the location of the resource is deﬁned as default, the resource is listed in LSF_RESOURCES on the server hosts. When the location of the
resource is deﬁned as all, the resource is only listed in LSF_RESOURCES on the management host.
Use LSF_RESOURCES in a checking header to verify that an elim is programmed to collect values for at least one of the resources listed in
LSF_RESOURCES.
ELIM_ABORT_VALUE—An elim should exit with ELIM_ABORT_VALUE if the elim is not programmed to collect values for at least one of the
resources listed in LSF_RESOURCES. The MELIM does not restart an elim that exits with ELIM_ABORT_VALUE. The default value is 97.
IBM Spectrum LSF 475

The following sample code shows how to use a header to verify that an elim is programmed to collect load indices for the resources expected on the
host. If the elim is not programmed to report on the requested resources, the elim does not need to run on the host.
#!/bin/sh  
# list the resources that the elim can report to lim  
my_resource="myrsc"  
# do the check when $LSF_RESOURCES is defined by lim  
if [ -n "$LSF_RESOURCES" ]; then  
# check if the resources elim can report are listed in $LSF_RESOURCES  
res_ok=`echo " $LSF_RESOURCES " | /bin/grep " $my_resource " `  
# exit with $ELIM_ABORT_VALUE if the elim cannot report on at least 
# one resource listed in $LSF_RESOURCES 
    if [ "$res_ok" = "" ] ; then 
        exit $ELIM_ABORT_VALUE 
    fi 
 fi 
while [ 1 ];do  
# set the value for resource "myrsc"  
val="1"  
# create an output string in the format:  
# number_indices index1_name index1_value...  
reportStr="1 $my_resource $val" 
 echo "$reportStr" 
# wait for 30 seconds before reporting again 
sleep 30 
done 
Conﬁguration to modify external load indices
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
lsf.cluster.
cluster_name
Parameters
sectionELIMARGS=cmd_line_a
rgsSpeciﬁes the command-line arguments that are required by an elim on startup.
ELIM_POLL_INTERVAL
=secondsSpeciﬁes the frequency with which the LIM samples external load index information from the
MELIM.
LSF_ELIM_BLOCKTIME
=secondsUNIX only. Speciﬁes how long the MELIM waits before restarting an elim that fails to send a
complete load update string.
The MELIM does not restart an elim that exits with ELIM_ABORT_VALUE.
LSF_ELIM_DEBUG=y UNIX only. Used for debugging; logs all load information received from elim executables to the
MELIM log ﬁle (melim.log.host_name).
LSF_ELIM_RESTARTS=i
ntegerUNIX only. Limits the number of times an elim can be restarted.
You must also deﬁne either LSF_ELIM_DEBUG or LSF_ELIM_BLOCKTIME.
Deﬁning this parameter prevents an ongoing restart loop in the case of a faulty elim.
External load indices commands
Commands to submit workload
Command Description
bsub -R "res_req" [-R
"res_req"] …Runs the job on a host that meets the speciﬁed resource requirements.
If you specify a value for a dynamic external resource in the resource requirements string, LSF uses the most recent
values that are provided by your elim executables for host selection.
For example:
Deﬁne a dynamic external resource called "usr_tmp" that represents the space available in the /usr/tmp
directory.
Write an elim executable to report the value of usr_tmp to LSF.
To run the job on hosts that have more than 15 MB available in the /usr/tmp directory, run the command bsub
-R "usr_tmp > 15" myjob
LSF uses the external load index value for usr_tmp to locate a host with more than 15 MB available in the
/usr/tmp directory.
476    IBM Spectrum LSF

Commands to monitor
Command Description
lsload Displays load information for all hosts in the cluster on a per host basis.
lsload -R "res_req"Displays load information for speciﬁc resources.
Commands to control
Command Description
1. lsadmin reconﬁg
2. badmin mbdrestart
3. If you are adding host-based dynamic resources, an administration must also restart all LIMs that are
impacted by the conﬁguration change, so that those LIMs can reload conﬁguration and start ELIMs based
on the new settings: lsadmin limrestart allApplies changes when you
modify lsf.shared or
lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
lsinfo Displays conﬁguration information for all resources, including the external resources that are deﬁned in
lsf.shared.
lsinfo -l Displays detailed conﬁguration information for external resources.
lsinfo resource_name … Displays conﬁguration information for the speciﬁed resources.
bhosts -s Displays information about numeric shared resources, including which hosts that share each resource.
bhosts -s shared_resource_name
…Displays conﬁguration information for the speciﬁed resources.
External static load indices
External static load indices report the values of static external resources. A static external resource is a user-deﬁned resource which, once detected
by LIM at start-up time, has a value that does not change, therefore, deﬁne an initial value for these resources. Use the external static load indices
feature to make the values of user-deﬁned static numeric or string resources available to LSF or to override the user-deﬁned static resources.
Typical examples of static external resources are ostype and osver, which come from LSF.
The external static resource value is reported by the external static LIM (eslim), which is a type of ELIM, and does not change until you restart the
LIM service. Use a static external resource for job scheduling as you would for other user-deﬁned external resources and LSF built-in resources.
Conﬁguration to enable external static load indices
 Enable external static load indices by deﬁning the static external resources and creating eslim executable ﬁles.
Create eslim executable ﬁles
 Create eslim executable ﬁles to report external static resource values.
Example of an eslim executable ﬁle
 Use the following resource conﬁguration and eslim script as an example for your own eslim ﬁles.
Conﬁguration to enable external static load indices
Enable external static load indices by deﬁning the static external resources and creating eslim executable ﬁles.
To enable the use of external static load indices, you must perform the following:
Deﬁne the static external resources in the lsf.shared ﬁle. By default, these resources are host-based (local to each host).
Important: You must run the lsadmin reconﬁg and badmin mbdrestart commands after any resource changes in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name
and lsf.shared ﬁles to synchronize resource information between the LIM and mbatchd daemons.
Create one or more eslim executable ﬁles in the LSF_SERVERDIR directory. LSF does not include a default eslim; write your own eslim
executable ﬁle to meet the requirements of your site.
IBM Spectrum LSF 477

Create eslim executable ﬁles
Create eslim executable ﬁles to report external static resource values.
The names of the external static load indices whose values are collected by your eslim executable ﬁles must be the same as the names of the
external resources that are deﬁned in the lsf.shared conﬁguration ﬁle.
All eslim executable ﬁles must
Be located in the LSF_SERVERDIR directory and follow these naming conventions:
Operating system Naming convention
UNIX LSF_SERVERDIR\eslim.application
Windows LSF_SERVERDIR\eslim.application.exe
or
LSF_SERVERDIR\eslim.application.bat
Restriction: The name eslim.user is reserved for backward compatibility. Do not use the name eslim.user for your application-speciﬁc eslim.
Note: LSF invokes any eslim that follows this naming convention: Move backup copies out of LSF_SERVERDIR or choose a name that does not
follow the convention. For example, use eslim_backup instead of eslim.backup.
Output a load update string only once to stdout in the format number_indices index_name index_value [index_name
index_value ...] where
Value Deﬁnes
number_indices The number of external static load indices that are collected by the eslim.
index_name The name of the external static load index.
index_value The external static load index value that is returned by your eslim.
Exit after reporting the load update string once.
For example, the string
3 tmp2 47.5 nio 344.0 tmp 5
reports three indices: tmp2, nio and tmp, with values 47.5, 344.0, and 5, respectively.
The load update string must end with only one \n or only one space. In Windows, echo will add \n.
The load update string must report values between -INFINIT_LOAD and INFINIT_LOAD as deﬁned in the lsf.h header ﬁle.
The eslim should ensure that the entire load update string is written successfully to stdout. Program the eslim to exit if it fails to write
the load update string to stdout.
If the eslim executable is a C program, check the return value of printf(3s).
If the eslim executable is a shell script, check the return code of /bin/echo(1).
If the eslim executable is implemented as a C program, use setbuf(3) during initialization to send unbuffered output to stdout.
 If a static eslim program fails or times out, the resources that it reports will not be available on that host. If this occurs, ﬁx the eslim program, then
run the lsadmin reconﬁg and badmin mbdrestart commands to make the resources available again.
If you map any external resource as default in lsf.cluster.cluster_name, all eslim executable ﬁles in the LSF_SERVERDIR directory run on all hosts in
the cluster. If LSF_SERVERDIR contains more than one eslim executable, you should include a header that checks whether the eslim is programmed
to report values for the resources expected on the host.
Example of an eslim executable ﬁle
Use the following resource conﬁguration and eslim script as an example for your own eslim ﬁles.
Example static external resource conﬁguration
The following example adds a resource named ostype to the Resource section of the lsf.shared ﬁle.
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME TYPE INTERVAL INCREASING DESCRIPTION 
... 
ostype String () () () 
... 
End Resource
478    IBM Spectrum LSF

Example eslim script
The following example illustrates how to use the example ostype resource in the lsf.shared ﬁle.
#!/bin/sh 
resname=ostype 
if [ -f /etc/redhat-release ] 
then 
 # Get the release string 
 rel=`head -1 /etc/redhat-release` 
 # If the release string is well formed, get the distribution name and 
 # version. 
 if echo "$rel" | grep ' release ' > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  dist=`echo "$rel" | sed -e "s/\(.*\) release.*/\1/"` 
  ver=`echo "$rel" | sed -e "s/.* release \([^ ]*\) .*/\1/"` 
  # Special case for some RHEL distributions, strip the AS. 
  ver=`echo "$ver" | sed "s/AS$//"` 
 else 
  # If the release string is not well formed, 
  # just pass the text to the user. 
  dist="$rel" 
  ver="" 
 fi 
 # Check for an update number. 
 if echo "$rel" | grep '(.* Update .*)' > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  upd=`echo "$rel" | sed -e "s/.* Update \(.*\))/\1/"` 
  ver="$ver.$upd" 
 fi 
 if echo "$dist" | grep "CentOS" > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  dist="CENT" 
 elif echo "$dist" | grep "^Red Hat Enterprise Linux" > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  dist="RHEL" 
 elif echo "$dist" | grep "^Red Hat Linux" > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  dist="RHAT" 
 elif echo "$dist" | grep "^Fedora" > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  dist="FEDC" 
 else 
  dist="RHunknown" 
 fi 
elif [ -f /etc/SuSE-release ] 
then 
 # Get the release string 
 line1=`cat /etc/SuSE-release | head -1` 
 line2=`cat /etc/SuSE-release | head -2 | tail -1` 
 line3=`cat /etc/SuSE-release | head -3 | tail -1` 
 dist="SLES" 
 if echo "$line2" | grep "^VERSION = " > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  ver=`echo "$line2" | sed -e 's/VERSION = \(.*\)/\1/'` 
 else 
  ver="" 
 fi 
 if echo "$line3" | grep "^PATCHLEVEL = " > /dev/null 2>&1 
 then 
  patchlev=`echo $line3 | sed -e 's/PATCHLEVEL = \(.*\)/\1/'` 
  ver="$ver.$patchlev" 
 fi 
elif [ "`uname -s`" = "AIX" ] 
then 
        dist="AIX" 
        ver=`uname -v`.`uname -r` 
else 
 dist=`uname -s` 
 ver=`uname -r` 
fi 
# Compose the ostype 
type="$dist$ver" 
# Strip illegal characters 
type=`echo $type | tr -cd '[:alnum:]._-'` 
IBM Spectrum LSF 479

# Report the result. 
echo "1 $resname $type"
After creating the eslim script
After you deﬁne the resources and create the eslim script, run the following commands to synchronize resource information between the LIM and
mbatchd daemons:
lsadmin reconfig 
badmin mbdrestart
To view information on the static external resources that you deﬁned, run the lshosts -s or -l command options.
Modify a built-in load index
An elim executable can be used to override the value of a built-in load index.
For example, if your site stores temporary ﬁles in the /usr/tmp directory, you might want to monitor the amount of space available in that directory.
An elim can report the space available in the /usr/tmp directory as the value for the tmp built-in load index. For detailed information about how to
use an elim to override a built-in load index, see External Load Indices.
Conﬁgure host resources
Add and remove hosts in your cluster. Conﬁgure LSF to run batch jobs on dynamic hosts. Conﬁgure a host to run one job at a time.
Adding a host
 Use the LSF installation script lsﬁnstall to add new hosts and host types to your cluster, and the hostsetup script to setup LSF to start
automatically.
Removing a host
 Removing a host from LSF involves preventing any additional jobs from running on the host, removing the host from LSF, and removing the
host from the cluster. To remove a host from your cluster, remove references to a host in your cluster from lsf.cluster.cluster_name and other
conﬁguration ﬁles.
Adding a host
Use the LSF installation script lsﬁnstall to add new hosts and host types to your cluster, and the hostsetup script to setup LSF to start automatically.
Dynamically adding hosts
 By default, all conﬁguration changes made to LSF are static. To add or remove hosts within the cluster, you must manually change the
conﬁguration and restart all management candidates.
Adding a host to the cluster using bconf
 
Adding a host of an existing type with lsﬁnstall
Use the LSF installation script lsﬁnstall to add more hosts of the same host type to your cluster, and the hostsetup script to set up LSF to start
automatically.
About this task
Restriction: lsﬁnstall is not compatible with clusters installed with the old lsfsetup script. To add a host to a cluster originally installed with lsfsetup,
you must upgrade your cluster.
Procedure
1. Make sure that the host type exists in your cluster:
a. Log on to any host in the cluster. You do not need to be root.
b. List the contents of the LSF_TOP/10.1.0 directory and conﬁrm that there is already a subdirectory with the name of the host type.
The default LSF_TOP/10.1.0 directory is /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0.
2. Add the host information to lsf.cluster.cluster_name:
a. Log on to the LSF management host as root.
b. Edit LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.cluster.cluster_name, and specify the following properties for the host in the Host section:
The name of the host.
480    IBM Spectrum LSF

The model and type, or specify ! to automatically detect the type or model.
Specify 1 for LSF server or 0 for LSF client.
Begin Host 
HOSTNAME  model  type      server  r1m  mem  RESOURCES  REXPRI 
hosta     !      SUNSOL    1       1.0  4    ()         0 
hostb     !      AIX       0       1.0  4    ()         0 
hostc     !      HPPA      1       1.0  4    ()         0 
hostd     !      LINUX     1       1.0  4    ()         0 
End Host 
c. Save your changes.
3. Run lsadmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure LIM.
4. Run badmin mbdrestart to restart mbatchd.
5. Run hostsetup to set up the new host and conﬁgure the daemons to start automatically at boot time.
Important: Before you run hostsetup, make sure that the hosts you want to set up are in lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
For example, run the following commands to use the LSF cluster installed in /usr/share/lsf and conﬁgure LSF daemons to start automatically
at boot time:
# cd /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0/install 
# ./hostsetup --top="/usr/share/lsf" --boot="y" 
For complete hostsetup usage, enter hostsetup -h.
6. Start LSF on the new host:
bctrld start lim 
bctrld start res 
bctrld start sbd 
7. Run bhosts and lshosts to verify your changes.
Adding a host of a new type with lsﬁnstall
Use the LSF installation script lsﬁnstall to add new host types to your cluster, and the hostsetup script to set up LSF to start automatically..
About this task
Restriction:
lsﬁnstall is not compatible with clusters installed with the old lsfsetup script. To add a host to a cluster originally installed with lsfsetup, you must
upgrade your cluster.
Procedure
1. Make sure that the host type does not exist in your cluster:
a. Log on to any host in the cluster. You do not need to be root.
b. List the contents of the LSF_TOP/10.1.0 directory. The default is /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0. If the host type currently exists, there is a
subdirectory with the name of the host type.
2. Get the LSF distribution ﬁle for the host type you want to add.
3. Log on as root to any host that can access the LSF installation directory.
4. Change to the LSF installation directory.
% cd /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0/install 
5. Edit install.conﬁg.
a. For LSF_TARDIR, specify the path to the directory that contains the distribution ﬁle.
LSF_TARDIR="/usr/share/lsf_distrib/10.1.0" 
b. For LSF_ADD_SERVERS, list the new host names that are enclosed in quotation marks and separated by spaces.
LSF_ADD_SERVERS="hosta hostb" 
c. Run ./lsﬁnstall -f install.conﬁg. The host information is automatically created in lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
6. Run lsadmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure LIM.
7. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure mbatchd.
8. Run hostsetup to set up the new host and conﬁgure the daemons to start automatically at boot time.
Important: Before you run hostsetup, make sure that the hosts you want to set up are in lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
For example, run the following commands to use the LSF cluster installed in /usr/share/lsf and conﬁgure LSF daemons to start automatically
at boot time:
# cd /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0/install 
# ./hostsetup --top="/usr/share/lsf" --boot="y" 
For complete hostsetup usage, enter hostsetup -h.
9. Start LSF on the new host:
IBM Spectrum LSF 481

bctrld start lim 
bctrld start res 
bctrld start sbd 
10. Run bhosts and lshosts to test your changes.
Dynamically adding hosts
By default, all conﬁguration changes made to LSF are static. To add or remove hosts within the cluster, you must manually change the conﬁguration
and restart all management candidates.
Dynamic host conﬁguration allows you to add and remove hosts without manual reconﬁguration. To enable dynamic host conﬁguration, all of the
parameters that are described in the following table must be deﬁned.
ParameterConﬁguration
ﬁleDescription
LSF_MASTER_LI
STlsf.conf Deﬁnes a list of management host candidates. These hosts receive information when a dynamic host is added
to or removed from the cluster. Do not add dynamic hosts to this list, because dynamic hosts cannot be
management hosts.
LSF_DYNAMIC_
HOST_WAIT_TI
MElsf.conf Deﬁnes the length of time a dynamic host waits before sending a request to the management host LIM to add
the host to the cluster.
LSF_HOST_ADD
R_RANGElsf.cluster.cluster
_nameIdentiﬁes the range of IP addresses for hosts that can dynamically join or leave the cluster.
Important: If you choose to enable dynamic hosts when you install LSF, the installer adds the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter to
lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle using a default value that allows any host to join the cluster. To enable security, conﬁgure LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE in
the lsf.cluster.cluster_nameﬁle after installation to restrict the hosts that can join your cluster.
Conﬁguring and running batch jobs on dynamic hosts
 Before you run batch jobs on a dynamic host, complete one or all of the following steps, depending on your cluster conﬁguration.
Changing a dynamic host to a static host
 If you want to change a dynamic host to a static host, ﬁrst use the badmin hghostdel command to remove the dynamic host from any host
group that it belongs to, and then conﬁgure the host as a static host in lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Adding a dynamic host in a shared ﬁle system environment
 In a shared ﬁle system environment, you do not need to install LSF on each dynamic host. The management host will recognize a dynamic host
as an LSF host when you start the daemons on the dynamic host.
Adding a dynamic host in a non-shared ﬁle system environment
 In a non-shared ﬁle system environment, you must install LSF binaries, a localized lsf.conf ﬁle, and shell environment scripts (cshrc.lsf and
proﬁle.lsf) on each dynamic host.
Dynamic host conﬁguration
Dynamic hosts are conﬁgured as follows:
Management host LIM
The primary management host LIM runs on the management host for the cluster. The management host LIM receives requests to add hosts,
and tells the management host candidates deﬁned by the LSF_MASTER_LIST parameter to update their conﬁguration information when a host
is dynamically added or removed.
Upon startup, both static and dynamic hosts wait to receive an acknowledgment from the management host LIM. This acknowledgment
indicates that the management host LIM has added the host to the cluster. Static hosts normally receive an acknowledgment because the
management host LIM has access to static host information in the LSF conﬁguration ﬁles. Dynamic hosts do not receive an acknowledgment,
however, until they announce themselves to the management host LIM. The LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle
determines how long a dynamic host waits before sending a request to the management host LIM to add the host to the cluster.
Management host candidate host LIMs
The LSF_MASTER_LIST parameter deﬁnes the list of management host candidates. These hosts receive updated host information from the
primary management host LIM so that any management host candidate can take over as the primary management host for the cluster.
Important: Primary management candidate hosts should share LSF conﬁguration and binaries.
Dynamic hosts cannot be primary management host candidates. By deﬁning the LSF_MASTER_LIST parameter, you ensure that LSF limits the
list of management host candidates to speciﬁc, static hosts.
mbatchd
The mbatchd daemon receives host information from the management host LIM; when it detects the addition or removal of a dynamic host
within the cluster, mbatchd automatically reconﬁgures itself.
Tip: After adding a host dynamically, you might have to wait for mbatchd to detect the host and reconﬁgure. Depending on system load,
mbatchd might wait up to ten minutes before reconﬁguring.
lsadmin command
482    IBM Spectrum LSF

Use the bctrld start lim command to start the LIM on a newly added dynamic host.
Allow only certain hosts to join the cluster
By default, any host can be dynamically added to the cluster. To enable security, deﬁne a value for the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter in the
lsf.cluster.cluster_nameﬁle to identify a range of IP addresses for hosts that are allowed to dynamically join the cluster as LSF hosts. IP addresses
can have either a dotted quad notation (IPv4) or IP Next Generation (IPv6) format. You can use IPv6 addresses if you deﬁne the
LSF_ENABLE_SUPPORT_IPV6 parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. You do not require mapping IPv4 addresses to an IPv6 format.
Conﬁguring and running batch jobs on dynamic hosts
Before you run batch jobs on a dynamic host, complete one or all of the following steps, depending on your cluster conﬁguration.
Procedure
Conﬁgure queues to accept all hosts by deﬁning the HOSTS parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁles with the keyword all.
Jobs submitted to this queue can run on dynamic hosts.
Deﬁne host groups that accept wildcard characters in the HostGroup section of the lsb.hosts ﬁle.
For example, deﬁne a host group named linux_hosts and specify a group member linuxrack* in the GROUP_MEMBER parameter in the
host group deﬁnition.
Jobs submitted a queue that deﬁnes the HOSTS=linux_hosts host group (which contains linuxrack* dynamic hosts) can run on dynamic
hosts.
Add a dynamic host to a host group by using the badmin hghostadd command.
Results
To run jobs on the dynamic hosts, submit a job directly to the host group at job level or to the host group deﬁned at the queue level.
Changing a dynamic host to a static host
If you want to change a dynamic host to a static host, ﬁrst use the badmin hghostdel command to remove the dynamic host from any host group
that it belongs to, and then conﬁgure the host as a static host in lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
Adding a dynamic host in a shared ﬁle system environment
In a shared ﬁle system environment, you do not need to install LSF on each dynamic host. The management host will recognize a dynamic host as an
LSF host when you start the daemons on the dynamic host.
Procedure
1. In the lsf.conf conﬁguration ﬁle on the management host, deﬁne the LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME parameter, in seconds, and assign a
value greater than zero.
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME speciﬁes how long a dynamic host waits before sending a request to the management host LIM to add the
host to the cluster.
For example:
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME=60
2. Deﬁne the LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT parameter.
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT speciﬁes how long LSF waits before the management host automatically removes unavailable dynamic host.
Each time LSF removes a dynamic host, mbatchd daemon automatically reconﬁgures itself.
Note: For very large clusters, deﬁning this parameter could decrease system performance
For example:
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT=60m
3. In the lsf.cluster.cluster_name conﬁguration ﬁle on the management host, deﬁne the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter.
LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE enables security by deﬁning a list of hosts that can join the cluster. Specify IP addresses or address ranges for hosts
that you want to allow in the cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 483

Note: If you deﬁne the LSF_ENABLE_SUPPORT_IPV6 parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle, IP addresses can have either a dotted quad notation (IPv4)
or IP Next Generation (IPv6) format; you do not have to map IPv4 addresses to an IPv6 format.
For example:
LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE=100-110.34.1-10.4-56
All hosts belonging to a domain with an address having the ﬁrst number between 100 and 110, then 34, then a number between one and ten,
and then a number between four and 56, will be allowed access. In this example, no IPv6 hosts are allowed.
4. Log on as root to each host you want to join the cluster.
5. Source the LSF environment:
For csh or tcsh:
source LSF_TOP/conf/cshrc.lsf
For sh, ksh, or bash:
. LSF_TOP/conf/profile.lsf
6. Consider if you want LSF to start automatically when the host reboots.
If do not want automatic restarting, go to the next step.
If you want automatic restarting, run the hostsetup command. For example:
cd /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0/install 
./hostsetup --top="/usr/share/lsf" --boot="y"
For complete hostsetup usage, enter hostsetup -h.
7. Use the following commands to start LSF:
bctrld start lim 
bctrld start res 
bctrld start sbd
Adding a dynamic host in a non-shared ﬁle system environment
In a non-shared ﬁle system environment, you must install LSF binaries, a localized lsf.conf ﬁle, and shell environment scripts (cshrc.lsf and proﬁle.lsf)
on each dynamic host.
Specifying installation options in the server.conﬁg ﬁle
All dynamic hosts are server hosts because they cannot serve as management host candidates. The server.conﬁg ﬁle contains parameters for
conﬁguring all server hosts.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne the required parameters:
LSF_SERVER_HOSTS="host_name [host_name 
...]"
LSF_ADMINS="user_name [ user_name ...  
]"
LSF_TOP="/path"
2. Optionally deﬁne the LSF_LIM_PORT parameter:
LSF_LIM_PORT=port_number
Important: If the management host does not use the default LSF_LIM_PORT, you must specify the same LSF_LIM_PORT deﬁned in lsf.conf on
the management host.
Adding local resources on a dynamic host to the cluster
Ensure that the resource name and type are deﬁned in lsf.shared ﬁle, and that the ResourceMap section of the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle contains
at least one resource mapped to at least one static host. LSF can add local resources as long as the ResourceMap section is deﬁned; you do not
need to map the local resources.
Procedure
In the server.conﬁg ﬁle, deﬁne the LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES parameter.
For numeric resources, deﬁne name-value pairs:
"[resourcemap value*resource_name]"
484    IBM Spectrum LSF

For Boolean resources, the value is the resource name in the following format:
"[resource resource_name]"
For example:
LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES="[resourcemap 1*verilog] [resource linux]"
Tip: If LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES are already deﬁned in a local lsf.confﬁle on the dynamic host, lsﬁnstall does not add resources you deﬁne in
LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES in the server.conﬁg ﬁle.
When the dynamic host sends a request to the management host to add it to the cluster, the dynamic host also reports its local resources. If the local
resource is already deﬁned in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle as default or all, it cannot be added as a local resource.
Installing LSF on a dynamic host
Procedure
Run lsﬁnstall -s -f server.conﬁg.
lsﬁnstall creates a local lsf.conf ﬁle for the dynamic host, which sets the following parameters:
LSF_CONFDIR="/path"
LSF_GET_CONF=lim
LSF_LIM_PORT=port_number (same as the management host LIM port number)
LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES="resource ..."
Tip: Do not duplicate LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES entries in the lsf.conf ﬁle. If local resources are deﬁned more than once, only the last deﬁnition
is valid.
LSF_SERVER_HOSTS="host_name [host_name 
...]"
LSF_VERSION=10.1.0
Conﬁguring dynamic host parameters
Procedure
1. In the lsf.conf conﬁguration ﬁle on the management host, deﬁne the LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME parameter, in seconds, and assign a
value greater than zero.
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME speciﬁes how long a dynamic host waits before sending a request to the management host LIM to add the
host to the cluster.
For example:
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_WAIT_TIME=60
2. Deﬁne the LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT parameter.
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT speciﬁes how long LSF waits before the management host automatically removes unavailable dynamic host.
Each time LSF removes a dynamic host, mbatchd daemon automatically reconﬁgures itself.
Note: For very large clusters, deﬁning this parameter could decrease system performance
For example:
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT=60m
3. In the lsf.cluster.cluster_name conﬁguration ﬁle on the management host, deﬁne the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter.
LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE enables security by deﬁning a list of hosts that can join the cluster. Specify IP addresses or address ranges for hosts
that you want to allow in the cluster.
Note: If you deﬁne the LSF_ENABLE_SUPPORT_IPV6 parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle, IP addresses can have either a dotted quad notation (IPv4)
or IP Next Generation (IPv6) format; you do not have to map IPv4 addresses to an IPv6 format.
For example:
LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE=100-110.34.1-10.4-56
All hosts belonging to a domain with an address having the ﬁrst number between 100 and 110, then 34, then a number between one and ten,
and then a number between four and 56, will be allowed access. In this example, no IPv6 hosts are allowed.
Starting LSF daemons
Procedure
1. Log on as root to each host you want to join the cluster.
2. Source the LSF environment:
For csh or tcsh:
source LSF_TOP/conf/cshrc.lsf
IBM Spectrum LSF 485

For sh, ksh, or bash:
. LSF_TOP/conf/profile.lsf
3. Consider if you want LSF to start automatically when the host reboots.
If do not want automatic restarting, go to the next step.
If you want automatic restarting, run the hostsetup command. For example:
cd /usr/share/lsf/10.1.0/install 
./hostsetup --top="/usr/share/lsf" --boot="y"
For complete hostsetup usage, enter hostsetup -h.
4. Start the daemons.
Assuming RSH (or password-less SSH) is set up, run the startup commands so that they take effect on the host being added to the cluster.
To run the commands on the host being added:
bctrld start lim 
bctrld start res 
bctrld start sbd
To run the commands from another host (for example, if you want to start the daemons on hostB from hostA):
rsh hostB bctrld start lim 
rsh hostB bctrld start res 
rsh hostB bctrld start sbd
Adding a host to the cluster using bconf
About this task
You can add a new server host with boolean resources to your cluster using live reconﬁguration.
Procedure
Run bconf add host=hostname
For example:
bconf add host=host24 "MXJ=21;RESOURCES=bigmem" 
bconf: Request for host <host24> accepted
Results
Restriction: If default is already deﬁned in lsb.hosts without a model or type line, no new line is added to the lsb.hosts ﬁle. (Applies to hosts added
without batch parameters.)
When using multicluster you cannot add leased hosts or any hosts from another cluster.
Newly added hosts do not join an existing advance reservation, or run existing pending jobs submitted to a host group with bsub -m where more than
one host or host group is speciﬁed.
Adding a faster host to the cluster does not update the RUNLIMIT deﬁnition in the queue to normalize with the new cpu factor.
Removing a host
Removing a host from LSF involves preventing any additional jobs from running on the host, removing the host from LSF, and removing the host from
the cluster. To remove a host from your cluster, remove references to a host in your cluster from lsf.cluster.cluster_name and other conﬁguration ﬁles.
About this task
CAUTION:
Never remove the management host from LSF. If you want to remove your current default management host from LSF, change
lsf.cluster.cluster_name to assign a different default management host. Then, remove the host that was once the management host.
Procedure
1. Log on to the LSF host as root.
486    IBM Spectrum LSF

2. Run badmin hclose to close the host. Closing the host prevents jobs from being dispatched to the host and allows running jobs to ﬁnish.
3. Stop all running daemons manually.
4. Remove any references to the host in the Host section of LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.cluster.cluster_name.
5. Remove any other references to the host, if applicable, from the following LSF conﬁguration ﬁles:
LSF_CONFDIR/lsf.shared
LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/lsb.hosts
LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/lsb.queues
LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/lsb.resources
6. Log off the host to be removed, and log on as root or the primary LSF administrator to any other host in the cluster.
7. Run lsadmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure LIM.
8. Run badmin mbdrestart to restart mbatchd.
9. If you conﬁgured LSF daemons to start automatically at system start, remove the LSF section from the host’s system start ﬁles.
Removing a host from management candidate list
 Removing dynamic hosts
 Removing a dynamic host involves setting a timeout value (LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT) to notify LSF about when to remove the host. If a
host is in unavailable status for longer than the time speciﬁed for the timeout value, then LSF marks the host as expired and removes it.
Removing a host from management candidate list
About this task
You can remove a host from the management candidate list so that it can no longer be the management host should failover occur. You can choose to
either keep it as part of the cluster or remove it.
Procedure
1. Shut down the current LIM:
limshutdown host_name
If the host was the current management host, failover occurs.
2. In lsf.conf, remove the host name from LSF_MASTER_LIST.
3. Run lsadmin reconﬁg for the remaining management candidates.
4. If the host you removed as a management candidate still belongs to the cluster, start up the LIM again:
limstartup host_name
Removing dynamic hosts
Removing a dynamic host involves setting a timeout value (LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT) to notify LSF about when to remove the host. If a host is
in unavailable status for longer than the time speciﬁed for the timeout value, then LSF marks the host as expired and removes it.
About this task
Tip: Alternatively, to remove a dynamic host as an administrator, shut down LSF daemons on the host, run the lsfadmin expire hostname
command to mark the host as expired, and then remove the host.
The LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT parameter in the lsf.conf conﬁguration ﬁle speciﬁes the length of time (minimum 10 minutes) that a dynamic
host is unavailable before the management host removes it from the cluster. Prior to Fix Pack 15, each time that LSF removes a dynamic host,
mbatchd automatically reconﬁgures itself. As of Fix Pack 15, LSF removes dynamic hosts without reconﬁguring or restarting daemons.
Tip: Prior to Fix Pack 15: For very large clusters, deﬁning this parameter could decrease system performance. If you want to use this parameter to
remove dynamic hosts from a very large cluster, disable the parameter after LSF has removed the unwanted hosts.
Procedure
In the lsf.conf ﬁle on the management host, deﬁne the LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT parameter.
To specify minutes rather than hours, append m or M to the value.
For example, to specify 60 minutes:
LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT=60m
Tip: An administrator can remove dynamic hosts by editing the hostcache ﬁle manually, rather than use this timeout mechanism. See the post
conﬁguration steps for administrators for details.
IBM Spectrum LSF 487

What to do next
The LSF_DYNAMIC_HOST_TIMEOUT value handles notifying LSF of when to remove dynamic host that is unavailable. You should not require
manually removing the host after Fix Pack 14. However, if advised by an administrator or IBM support, you can do so, as follows:
1. Shut down the cluster:
lsfshutdown
This shuts down LSF on all hosts in the cluster and prevents LIMs from trying to write to the hostcache ﬁle while you edit it.
2. In the hostcache ﬁle, delete the line for the dynamic host that you removed:
If EGO is enabled, the hostcache ﬁle is in $EGO_WORKDIR/lim directory.
If EGO is not enabled, the hostcache ﬁle is in $LSB_SHAREDIR directory.
3. Save and close the hostcache ﬁle, and then start the cluster:
lsfrestart
Share resources in queues
Learn how to conﬁgure LSF queues. Use LSF commands to control queues (close, open, activate, inactivate). Conﬁgure dispatch and run windows in
queues. Restrict which hosts can use queues. Restrict the job size requested by parallel jobs in a queue. Add queue administrators and give users
access to queues. Control job order within queues and switch jobs from one queue to another. Conﬁgure an exclusive queue.
Controlling queues
 Queues are controlled by an LSF administrator or root queue control command or with dispatch and run windows conﬁgured in the queue. Use
LSF commands and conﬁguration to close, open, deactivate, and activate a queue. Add and remove queues and queue administrators.
Conﬁgure dispatch and run windows. Restrict hosts and jobs that can use queues.
Change job order within queues
 By default, LSF dispatches jobs in a queue in the order of arrival (that is, ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served), subject to availability of suitable server
hosts.
Switch jobs from one queue to another
 You can use the commands bswitch and bmod to change jobs from one queue to another. This is useful if you submit a job to the wrong
queue, or if the job is suspended because of queue thresholds or run windows and you would like to resume the job.
Controlling queues
Queues are controlled by an LSF administrator or root queue control command or with dispatch and run windows conﬁgured in the queue. Use LSF
commands and conﬁguration to close, open, deactivate, and activate a queue. Add and remove queues and queue administrators. Conﬁgure dispatch
and run windows. Restrict hosts and jobs that can use queues.
Closing a queue
 Close a queue to prevent jobs from being submitted to the queue.
Opening a queue
Open a closed queue so users can submit jobs to it.
Deactivating a queue
 Deactivate a queue to stop submitted jobs from being dispatched from the queue.
Activating a queue
 Activate a deactivated queue so that submitted jobs are dispatched from the queue.
Logging a comment on a queue control command
 When you open, close, activate, or deactivate a queue, add a comment to give more information about the queue control action.
Conﬁguring dispatch windows
 A dispatch window speciﬁes one or more time periods during which batch jobs are dispatched to run on hosts.
Conﬁguring run windows
 A run window speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs dispatched from a queue are allowed to run.
Adding a queue
 Edit the lsb.queues ﬁle to add the new queue deﬁnition. Adding a queue does not affect pending or running jobs.
Removing a queue
 Edit lsb.queues to remove a queue deﬁnition.
Restricting which hosts can use queues
 You might want a host to be used only to run jobs that are submitted to speciﬁc queues.
Restricting job size requested by parallel jobs in a queue
 When users submit, modify, or switch parallel jobs with the bsub and bmod -n option to explicitly request a job slot size, or with the -R option
to specify resource requirements, administrators can restrict the number of job slots that are requested for the queue.
Adding queue administrators
 Queue administrators have limited privileges; they can perform administrative operations (open, close, activate, deactivate) on the speciﬁed
488    IBM Spectrum LSF

queue, or on jobs that are running in the speciﬁed queue. Queue administrators are optionally conﬁgured after installation.
Closing a queue
Close a queue to prevent jobs from being submitted to the queue.
Procedure
Run badmin qclose:
Queue <normal> is closed
When a user trbadmin qclose normalies to submit a job to a closed queue, the following message is displayed:
bsub -q normal ... 
normal: Queue has been closed
Opening a queue
Open a closed queue so users can submit jobs to it.
Procedure
Run badmin qopen:
badmin qopen normal 
Queue <normal> is opened
Deactivating a queue
Deactivate a queue to stop submitted jobs from being dispatched from the queue.
Procedure
Run badmin qinact:
badmin qinact normal 
Queue <normal> is inactivated
Activating a queue
Activate a deactivated queue so that submitted jobs are dispatched from the queue.
Procedure
Run badmin qact:
badmin qact normal 
Queue <normal> is activated
Logging a comment on a queue control command
When you open, close, activate, or deactivate a queue, add a comment to give more information about the queue control action.
Procedure
IBM Spectrum LSF 489

1. Use the -C option of badmin queue commands qclose, qopen, qact, and qinact to log an administrator comment in lsb.events.
badmin qclose -C "change configuration" normal 
The comment text change configuration is recorded in lsb.events.
A new event record is recorded for each queue event. For example, the following commands generate records in lsb.events:
badmin qclose -C "add user" normal 
badmin qclose -C "add user user1" normal 
The following records are generated:
"QUEUE_CTRL" "10.1.0 1050082373 1 "normal" 32185 "lsfadmin" "add user" 
"QUEUE_CTRL" "10.1.0 1050082380 1 "normal" 32185 "lsfadmin" "add user user1"
2. Use badmin hist or badmin qhist to display administrator comments for closing and opening hosts.
badmin qhist 
Fri Apr  4 10:50:36: Queue <normal> closed by administrator <lsfadmin> change configuration.
bqueues -l also displays the comment text:
bqueues -l normal 
QUEUE: normal 
 -- For normal low priority jobs, running only if hosts are lightly loaded.  Th is is the default queue. 
  
PARAMETERS/STATISTICS 
PRIO NICE STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN SSUSP USUSP  RSV 
 30   20  Closed:Active     -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0     0    0  
Interval for a host to accept two jobs is 0 seconds 
 THREADLIMIT 
       7  
  
SCHEDULING PARAMETERS 
            r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem  
loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      -  
loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
  
              cpuspeed    bandwidth   
loadSched          -            -   
loadStop           -            -   
  
JOB EXCEPTION PARAMETERS 
              OVERRUN(min) UNDERRUN(min) IDLE(cputime/runtime) 
Threshold         -         2             -        
Jobs              -         0             -  
  
USERS:  all users  
HOSTS:  all  
RES_REQ:  select[type==any]  
  
ADMIN ACTION COMMENT: "change configuration"
Conﬁguring dispatch windows
A dispatch window speciﬁes one or more time periods during which batch jobs are dispatched to run on hosts.
About this task
Jobs are not dispatched outside of conﬁgured windows. Dispatch windows do not affect job submission and running jobs (they are allowed to run
until completion). By default, queues are always Active; you must explicitly conﬁgure dispatch windows in the queue to specify a time when the
queue state is Inactive.
Procedure
1. Edit lsb.queues
2. Create a DISPATCH_WINDOW keyword for the queue and specify one or more time windows.
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME   = queue1  
PRIORITY     = 45  
DISPATCH_WINDOW = 4:30-12:00  
End Queue
3. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
490    IBM Spectrum LSF

a. Run lsadmin reconﬁg.
b. Run badmin reconﬁg.
4. Run bqueues -l to display the dispatch windows.
Conﬁguring run windows
A run window speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs dispatched from a queue are allowed to run.
About this task
When a run window closes, running jobs are suspended, and pending jobs remain pending. The suspended jobs are resumed when the window
opens again. By default, queues are always Active and jobs can run until completion. You must explicitly conﬁgure run windows in the queue to
specify a time when the queue state is Inactive.
Procedure
1. Edit lsb.queues.
2. Create a RUN_WINDOW keyword for the queue and specify one or more time windows.
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME   = queue1  
PRIORITY     = 45  
RUN_WINDOW   = 4:30-12:00  
End Queue
3. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
a. Run lsadmin reconﬁg.
b. Run badmin reconﬁg.
4. Run bqueues -l to display the run windows.
Adding a queue
Edit the lsb.queues ﬁle to add the new queue deﬁnition. Adding a queue does not affect pending or running jobs.
Procedure
1. Log in as the administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Edit the LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/lsb.queues ﬁle to add the new queue deﬁnition.
You can copy another queue deﬁnition from this ﬁle as a starting point. Remember to change the QUEUE_NAME parameter of the copied
queue.
3. Save the changes to the lsb.queues ﬁle.
4. When the conﬁguration ﬁles are ready, run the badmin ckconﬁg command to check the new queue deﬁnition.
If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
5. Run the badmin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure the cluster.
% badmin reconfig 
Checking configuration files ... 
No errors found. 
Do you want to reconfigure? [y/n] y 
Reconfiguration initiated
The badmin reconﬁg command also checks for conﬁguration errors. If no unrecoverable errors are found, you are asked to conﬁrm
reconﬁguration. If unrecoverable errors are found, reconﬁguration exits.
Results
If you get errors, see Troubleshooting LSF problems for help with some common conﬁguration errors.
For more information about the lsb.queues ﬁle, see the Conﬁguration Reference.
For more information about the badmin reconﬁg command, see the Command Reference.
Example
IBM Spectrum LSF 491

Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = normal  
PRIORITY = 30  
STACKLIMIT= 2048  
DESCRIPTION = For normal low priority jobs, running only if hosts are lightly loaded.  
QJOB_LIMIT = 60     # job limit of the queue  
PJOB_LIMIT = 2     # job limit per processor  
ut = 0.2  
io = 50/240  
USERS = all  
HOSTS = all   
NICE = 20  
End Queue 
Removing a queue
Edit lsb.queues to remove a queue deﬁnition.
Before you begin
Important: Before you remove a queue, make sure that no jobs are running in the queue.
Use the bqueues command to view a list of existing queues and the jobs that are running in those queues. If jobs are in the queue that you want to
remove, you must switch pending and running jobs to another queue, then remove the queue. If you remove a queue that has pending jobs in it, the
jobs are temporarily moved to a lost_and_found queue. The job state does not change. Running jobs continue, and jobs that are pending in the
original queue are pending in the lost_and_found queue. Jobs remain pending until the user or the queue administrator uses the bswitch
command to switch the jobs into a regular queue. Jobs in other queues are not affected.
Procedure
1. Log in as the primary administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Close the queue to prevent any new jobs from being submitted.
badmin qclose night 
Queue night is closed
3. Switch all pending and running jobs into another queue.
For example, the bswitch -q night idle 0 command chooses jobs from the night queue to the idle queue. The job ID number 0 switches all
jobs.
bjobs -u all -q night 
JOBID USER  STAT  QUEUE FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME  
5308  user5  RUN   night    hostA     hostD         job5  Nov 21 18:16  
5310  user5 PEND   night    hostA     hostC        job10  Nov 21 18:17 
  
bswitch -q night idle 0 
Job <5308> is switched to queue <idle>  
Job <5310> is switched to queue <idle>
4. Edit the LSB_CONFDIR/cluster_name/conﬁgdir/lsb.queues ﬁle and remove or comment out the deﬁnition for the queue that you want to
remove.
5. Save the changes to the lsb.queues ﬁle.
6. Run the badmin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure the cluster.
% badmin reconfig 
Checking configuration files ... 
No errors found. 
Do you want to reconfigure? [y/n] y 
Reconfiguration initiated
The badmin reconﬁg command checks for conﬁguration errors. If no unrecoverable errors are found, you are asked to conﬁrm
reconﬁguration. If unrecoverable errors are found, reconﬁguration exits.
Results
If you get errors, see Troubleshooting LSF problems for help with some common conﬁguration errors.
For more information about the lsb.queues ﬁle, see the Conﬁguration Reference.
For more information about the badmin reconﬁg command, see the Command Reference.
Restricting which hosts can use queues
492    IBM Spectrum LSF

You might want a host to be used only to run jobs that are submitted to speciﬁc queues.
About this task
For example, if you just added a host for a speciﬁc department such as engineering, you might want only jobs that are submitted to the queues
engineering1 and engineering2 to be able to run on the host.
Procedure
1. Log on as root or the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Edit lsb.queues, and add the host to the HOSTS parameter of speciﬁc queues.
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue1  
...  
HOSTS=mynewhost hostA hostB  
...  
End Queue
3. Save the changes to lsb.queues.
4. Use badmin ckconﬁg to check the new queue deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
5. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure mbatchd.
6. If you add a host to a queue, the new host is recognized by jobs that were submitted before you reconﬁgured. If you want the new host to be
recognized, you must use the command badmin mbdrestart.
Restricting job size requested by parallel jobs in a queue
When users submit, modify, or switch parallel jobs with the bsub and bmod -n option to explicitly request a job slot size, or with the -R option to
specify resource requirements, administrators can restrict the number of job slots that are requested for the queue.
About this task
LSF rejects job submission or pends existing jobs that request job slot sizes that are not in this list. LSF also rejects jobs that request multiple job slot
sizes. The ﬁrst slot size in this list is the default job size, which is the job size that is assigned to jobs that do not explicitly request a job size. The rest
of the list can be deﬁned in any order.
For example, if the job size list for the queue1 queue allows 2, 4, 8, and 16 job slots, and you submit a parallel job that requests 10 job slots in this
queue (bsub -q queue1 -n 10 ...), that job is rejected because the job size of 10 is not explicitly allowed in the list. To assign a default job size of
4, specify 4 as the ﬁrst value in the list. Job submissions that do not use -n are automatically assigned a job size of 4.
When you use resource requirements to specify job slot size, the request must specify a single ﬁxed number of job slots and not multiple values or a
range of values:
When you use compound resource requirements with the -n and -R options, make sure that the compound resource requirement matches the
-n value, which must match a value in the job size list.
When you use compound resource requirements without -n, the compound resource requirement must imply a ﬁxed number of job slots. The
implied total number of job slots must match a value in the job size list.
When you use alternative resource requirements, each of the alternatives must request a ﬁxed number of slots, and all alternative values must
match the values in the job size list.
Procedure
1. Log on as root or the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Edit lsb.queues, and deﬁne the JOB_SIZE_LIST parameter in speciﬁc queues.
JOB_SIZE_LIST=default_size [size ...]
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue1  
...  
JOB_SIZE_LIST=4 2 8 16  
...  
End Queue
3. Save the changes to lsb.queues.
4. Use badmin ckconﬁg to check the new queue deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
5. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure mbatchd.
IBM Spectrum LSF 493

Adding queue administrators
Queue administrators have limited privileges; they can perform administrative operations (open, close, activate, deactivate) on the speciﬁed queue,
or on jobs that are running in the speciﬁed queue. Queue administrators are optionally conﬁgured after installation.
About this task
Queue administrators cannot modify conﬁguration ﬁles, or operate on LSF daemons or on queues they are not conﬁgured to administer.
To switch a job from one queue to another, you must have administrator privileges for both queues.
Procedure
In the lsb.queues ﬁle, between Begin Queue and End Queue for the appropriate queue, specify the ADMINISTRATORS parameter, followed by the
list of administrators for that queue. Separate the administrator names with a space. You can specify user names and group names.
Begin Queue  
ADMINISTRATORS = User1 GroupA  
End Queue
Change job order within queues
By default, LSF dispatches jobs in a queue in the order of arrival (that is, ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served), subject to availability of suitable server hosts.
Use the btop and bbot commands to change the position of pending jobs, or of pending job array elements, to affect the order in which jobs are
considered for dispatch. Users can only change the relative position of their own jobs, and LSF administrators can change the position of any users’
jobs.
bbot
Moves jobs relative to your last job in the queue.
If invoked by a regular user, bbot moves the selected job after the last job with the same priority submitted by the user to the queue.
If invoked by the LSF administrator, bbot moves the selected job after the last job with the same priority submitted to the queue.
btop
Moves jobs relative to your ﬁrst job in the queue.
If invoked by a regular user, btop moves the selected job before the ﬁrst job with the same priority submitted by the user to the queue.
If invoked by the LSF administrator, btop moves the selected job before the ﬁrst job with the same priority submitted to the queue.
Move a job to the top of the queue
In the following example, job 5311 is moved to the top of the queue. Since job 5308 is already running, job 5311 is placed in the queue after job
5308.
Note that user1’s job is still in the same position on the queue. user2 cannot use btop to get extra jobs at the top of the queue; when one of his jobs
moves up the queue, the rest of his jobs move down.
bjobs -u all 
JOBID USER  STAT  QUEUE    FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
5308  user2 RUN   normal   hostA      hostD      /s500     Oct 23 10:16 
5309  user2 PEND  night    hostA                 /s200     Oct 23 11:04 
5310  user1 PEND  night    hostB                 /myjob    Oct 23 13:45 
5311  user2 PEND  night    hostA                 /s700     Oct 23 18:17 
  
btop 5311 
Job <5311> has been moved to position 1 from top. 
  
bjobs -u all 
JOBID USER  STAT  QUEUE    FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
5308  user2 RUN   normal   hostA      hostD      /s500     Oct 23 10:16 
5311  user2 PEND  night    hostA                 /s200     Oct 23 18:17 
5310  user1 PEND  night    hostB                 /myjob    Oct 23 13:45 
5309  user2 PEND  night    hostA                 /s700     Oct 23 11:04
494    IBM Spectrum LSF

Switch jobs from one queue to another
You can use the commands bswitch and bmod to change jobs from one queue to another. This is useful if you submit a job to the wrong queue, or if
the job is suspended because of queue thresholds or run windows and you would like to resume the job.
Switching a single job to a different queue
 Switching all jobs to a different queue
 Use external job switch controls
 Use the external job switch controls to use external, site-speciﬁc binary ﬁles or scripts that are associated with the switch request.
Switching a single job to a different queue
Procedure
Run bswitch or bmod to move pending and running jobs from queue to queue. By default, LSF dispatches jobs in a queue in order of arrival, so a
pending job goes to the last position of the new queue, no matter what its position was in the original queue.
In the following example, job 5309 is switched to the priority queue:
bswitch priority 5309 
Job <5309> is switched to queue <priority> 
bjobs -u all 
JOBID    USER   STAT   QUEUE    FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME  
5308     user2   RUN   normal   hostA      hostD       /job500    Oct 23 10:16  
5309     user2   RUN   priority hostA      hostB       /job200    Oct 23 11:04  
5311     user2   PEND  night    hostA                  /job700    Oct 23 18:17  
5310     user1   PEND  night    hostB                  /myjob     Oct 23 13:45
Switching all jobs to a different queue
Procedure
Run bswitch -q from_queue to_queue 0 to switch all the jobs in a queue to another queue.
The -q option is used to operate on all jobs in a queue. The job ID number 0 speciﬁes that all jobs from the night queue should be switched to the idle
queue:
The following example selects jobs from the night queue and switches them to the idle queue.
bswitch -q night idle 0 
Job <5308> is switched to queue <idle>  
Job <5310> is switched to queue <idle>
Use external job switch controls
Use the external job switch controls to use external, site-speciﬁc binary ﬁles or scripts that are associated with the switch request.
A user runs the bswitch command to switch jobs to a different queue. External job switch controls allow users to specify an application-speciﬁc
external executable ﬁle (eswitch) to associate with the switch request.
LSF ﬁrst invokes the executable ﬁle named eswitch (without .application_name in the ﬁle name) if it exists in the LSF_SERVERDIR directory. If an LSF
administrator speciﬁes one or more mandatory eswitch executable ﬁles using the LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle, LSF then
invokes the mandatory executable ﬁles. Finally, LSF invokes any application-speciﬁc eswitch executable ﬁles (with .application_name in the ﬁle
name) speciﬁed by the bswitch -a option.
An eswitch is run only once, even if it is speciﬁed by both the bswitch -a option and the LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD parameter.
By writing external job switch executable ﬁles, you can accept, reject, or change the destination queue for any bswitch request. If the eswitch
executable ﬁle exits with the same return code as the value of the LSB_SWITCH_ABORT_VALUE environment variable, the job switch request is
ignored and LSF outputs a failure message.
Conﬁguration to enable job switch controls
 Enable job switch controls with at least one eswitch executable ﬁle in the directory speciﬁed by the parameter LSF_SERVERDIR in the lsf.conf
ﬁle.
IBM Spectrum LSF 495

Conﬁguration to modify job switch controls
The LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD conﬁguration parameter modiﬁes the job switch controls behavior by deﬁning mandatory eswitch programs that
apply to all job switch requests.
Command arguments for job switch controls
eswitch arguments provide flexibility for ﬁltering and modifying job switch requests by letting you specify options for eswitch programs.
Conﬁguration to enable job switch controls
Enable job switch controls with at least one eswitch executable ﬁle in the directory speciﬁed by the parameter LSF_SERVERDIR in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
LSF does not include a default eswitch; write your own programs to meet the job requirements of your site.
Executable ﬁle UNIX naming convention Windows naming convention
eswitch LSF_SERVERDIR/eswitch.applicationLSF_SERVERDIR\eswitch.application.exe
LSF_SERVERDIR\eswitch.application.bat
The name of your eswitch indicates the application with which it runs. For example: eswitch.fluent.
Restriction: The name eswitch.user is reserved. Do not use the name eswitch.user for an application-speciﬁc eswitch.
Valid ﬁle names contain only alphanumeric characters, underscores (_), and hyphens (-).
Once the LSF_SERVERDIR contains one or more eswitch executable ﬁles, users can specify the eswitch programs that are associated with each job
that they switch.
Environment variables used by eswitch
When you write an eswitch, you can use the following environment variables provided by LSF for the eswitch execution environment:
LSB_SWITCH_PARM_FILE
Points to a temporary ﬁle that LSF uses to store the bswitch options entered in the command line. An eswitch reads this ﬁle at the job
bswitch level and either accepts or changes the values.
An eswitch can change the target queue name by writing to the ﬁle that is speciﬁed by the LSB_SWITCH_MODIFY_FILE environment variable.
The temporary ﬁle pointed to by LSB_SWITCH_PARM_FILE stores the following information:
Option bswitch option Description
LSB_SWITCH   If set to Y, indicates that this is a bswitch request.
LSB_SWITCH_ADDITIONAL-a The name of the eswitch script.
LSB_SWITCH_JOB bswitch job ID command argument The ID of the job, job array, or job array elements.
LSB_SWITCH_QUEUE bswitch queue name command argumentThe name of the target queue.
LSB_SWITCH_MODIFY_FILE
Points to the ﬁle that the eswitch uses to modify the bswitch target queue values.
When your eswitch runs, LSF checks the LSB_SWITCH_MODIFY_FILE and applies changes so that the job switches to the revised queue.
LSB_SWITCH_ABORT_VALUE
Indicates to LSF that a job switch request should be rejected. For example, if you want LSF to reject a job switch request, your eswitch must
contain the line
exit $LSB_SWITCH_ABORT_VALUE 
Conﬁguration to modify job switch controls
The LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD conﬁguration parameter modiﬁes the job switch controls behavior by deﬁning mandatory eswitch programs that apply
to all job switch requests.
Conﬁguration to deﬁne a mandatory eswitch
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
lsf.conf LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD="application_name
[application_name] …"The speciﬁed eswitch run for all job switch requests.
For example, to specify a mandatory eswitch named eswitch.fluent,
deﬁne LSB_ESWITCH_METHOD=fluent
496    IBM Spectrum LSF

Command arguments for job switch controls
eswitch arguments provide flexibility for ﬁltering and modifying job switch requests by letting you specify options for eswitch programs.
The bswitch –a command option supports arguments for a given eswitch. Users can customize their eswitch applications, put them under
LSF_SERVERDIR, and then submit jobs as bswitch –a “application_name” queue_name job_id.
The bswitch -a option functions the same as the bsub -a option, except that it controls eswitch ﬁles instead of esub/epsub ﬁles.
Share resources with application proﬁles
Application proﬁles improve the management of applications by separating scheduling policies (for example, job preemption and fair share
scheduling) from application-level requirements, such as pre-execution and post-execution commands, resource limits, or job controls.
Manage application proﬁles
 Use application proﬁles to map common execution requirements to application-speciﬁc job containers. Add, remove, and set default
application proﬁles.
Submitting jobs to application proﬁles
 How application proﬁles interact with queue and job parameters
 Application proﬁles operate in conjunction with queue and job-level options. In general, you use application proﬁle deﬁnitions to reﬁne queue-
level settings, or to exclude some jobs from queue-level parameters.
Manage application proﬁles
Use application proﬁles to map common execution requirements to application-speciﬁc job containers. Add, remove, and set default application
proﬁles.
For example, you can deﬁne different job types according to the properties of the applications that you use; your FLUENT jobs can have different
execution requirements from your CATIA jobs, but they can all be submitted to the same queue.
The following application proﬁle deﬁnes the execution requirements for the FLUENT application:
Begin Application 
NAME         = fluent 
DESCRIPTION  = FLUENT Version 6.2 
CPULIMIT     = 180/hostA      # 3 hours of host hostA 
FILELIMIT    = 20000 
DATALIMIT    = 20000          # jobs data segment limit 
CORELIMIT    = 20000 
TASKLIMIT    = 5              # job processor limit 
PRE_EXEC     = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_pre >> /tmp/pre.out 
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES = 55 34 78 
End Application
See the lsb.applications template ﬁle for additional application proﬁle examples.
Tip: To use application proﬁles in an LSF multicluster environment, conﬁgure the application proﬁle on both the submission and execution clusters.
The application proﬁle option that is speciﬁed for a job will be forwarded with the job. If the application proﬁle does not exist in the execution cluster,
the job pends with a special reason.
Use the bclusters -app command to see the application proﬁles conﬁgured in a remote cluster.
Adding an application proﬁle to the lsb.applications ﬁle
 Add new application proﬁle deﬁnitions to the lsb.applications ﬁle.
Adding an application proﬁle to the lsb.applications ﬁle
Add new application proﬁle deﬁnitions to the lsb.applications ﬁle.
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Edit the lsb.applications ﬁle to add the new application proﬁle deﬁnition.
IBM Spectrum LSF 497

You can copy another application proﬁle deﬁnition from this ﬁle as a starting point.
Remember: Change the name of the copied proﬁle in the NAME parameter.
3. Save the changes to the lsb.applications ﬁle.
4. Run the badmin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure the mbatchd daemon.
Results
Adding an application proﬁle does not affect pending or running jobs.
Remove an application proﬁle
Remove application proﬁle deﬁnitions from the lsb.applications ﬁle.
Before you begin
Before you remove an application proﬁle, make sure that no pending jobs are associated with the application proﬁle.
About this task
If jobs are in the application proﬁle, use the bmod -app command to move pending jobs to another application proﬁle, then remove the application
proﬁle. Running jobs are not affected by removing the application proﬁle associated with them.
Restriction: You cannot remove a default application proﬁle.
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Run the bmod -app command to move all pending jobs into another application proﬁle.
If you leave pending jobs associated with an application proﬁle that has been removed, they remain pending with the following pending
reason:
Specified application profile does not exist 
3. Edit the lsb.applications ﬁle and delete or comment out the deﬁnition for the application proﬁle you want to remove.
4. Save the changes to the lsb.applications ﬁle.
5. Run the badmin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure the mbatchd daemon.
Deﬁne a default application proﬁle
Set the DEFAULT_APPLICATION parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle to deﬁne a default application proﬁle that is used when a job is submitted without
specifying an application proﬁle.
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Specify the name of the default application proﬁle in the DEFAULT_APPLICATION parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle.
DEFAULT_APPLICATION=catia
3. Save the changes to the lsb.params ﬁle.
4. Run the badmin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure the mbatchd daemon.
Submitting jobs to application proﬁles
About this task
Use the -app option of bsub to specify an application proﬁle for the job.
Procedure
Run bsub -app to submit jobs to an application proﬁle.
bsub -app fluent -q overnight myjob
LSF rejects the job if the speciﬁed application proﬁle does not exist.
Modifying the application proﬁle associated with a job
498    IBM Spectrum LSF

Before you begin
You can only modify the application proﬁle for pending jobs.
Procedure
Run bmod -app application_proﬁle_name to modify the application proﬁle of the job.
The -appn option dissociates the speciﬁed job from its application proﬁle. If the application proﬁle does not exist, the job is not modiﬁed
Example
bmod -app fluent 2308
Associates job 2308 with the application proﬁle fluent.
bmod -appn 2308
Dissociates job 2308 from the application proﬁle fluent.
Controlling jobs associated with application proﬁles
About this task
bstop, bresume, and bkill operate on jobs associated with the speciﬁed application proﬁle. You must specify an existing application proﬁle. If job_ID
or 0 is not speciﬁed, only the most recently submitted qualifying job is operated on.
Procedure
1. Run bstop -app to suspend jobs in an application proﬁle.
bstop -app fluent 2280
Suspends job 2280 associated with the application proﬁle fluent.
bstop -app fluent 0
Suspends all jobs that are associated with the application proﬁle fluent.
2. Run bresume -app to resume jobs in an application proﬁle.
bresume -app fluent 2280
Resumes job 2280 associated with the application proﬁle fluent.
3. Run bkill -app to kill jobs in an application proﬁle.
bkill -app fluent
Kills the most recently submitted job that is associated with the application proﬁle fluent for the current user.
bkill -app fluent 0
Kills all jobs that are associated with the application proﬁle fluent for the current user.
How application proﬁles interact with queue and job parameters
Application proﬁles operate in conjunction with queue and job-level options. In general, you use application proﬁle deﬁnitions to reﬁne queue-level
settings, or to exclude some jobs from queue-level parameters.
Application proﬁle settings that override queue settings
 The following application proﬁle parameters override the corresponding queue setting:
Application proﬁle limits and queue limits
 The following application proﬁle limits override the corresponding queue-level soft limits:
Deﬁne application-speciﬁc environment variables
 You can use application proﬁles to pass application-speciﬁc tuning and runtime parameters to the application by deﬁning application-speciﬁc
environment variables. Once an environment variable is set, it applies for each job that uses the same application proﬁle. This provides a
simple way of extending application proﬁles to include additional information.
Absolute run limits
 If you want the scheduler to treat any run limits as absolute, deﬁne ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y in lsb.params or in lsb.applications for the application
proﬁle that is associated with your job. When ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y is deﬁned in lsb.params or in the application proﬁle, the run time limit is not
normalized by the host CPU factor. Absolute wall-clock run time is used for all jobs submitted with a run limit conﬁgured.
Pre-execution
 Queue-level pre-execution commands run before application-level pre-execution commands. Job level pre-execution commands (bsub -E)
override application-level pre-execution commands.
IBM Spectrum LSF 499

Post-execution
When a job ﬁnishes, post-execution commands run. For the order in which these commands run, refer to the section on Pre-Execution and
Post-Execution Processing.
Re-runnable jobs
RERUNNABLE in an application proﬁle overrides queue-level job rerun, and allows you to submit re-runnable jobs to a non re-runnable queue.
Job-level rerun (bsub -r or bsub -rn) overrides both the application proﬁle and the queue.
Resource requirements
Application-level resource requirements can be simple (one requirement for all slots) or compound (different requirements for speciﬁed
numbers of slots). When resource requirements are set at the application-level as well as the job-level or queue-level, the requirements are
combined in different ways depending on whether they are simple or compound.
Estimated job run time and runtime limits
Instead of specifying an explicit runtime limit for jobs, you can specify an estimated run time for jobs. LSF uses the estimated value for job
scheduling purposes only, and does not kill jobs that exceed this value unless the jobs also exceed a deﬁned runtime limit.
Application proﬁle settings that override queue settings
The following application proﬁle parameters override the corresponding queue setting:
CHKPNT_DIR—overrides queue CHKPNT=chkpnt_dir
CHKPNT_PERIOD—overrides queue CHKPNT=chkpnt_period
GPU_REQ
JOB_STARTER
LOCAL_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY
LOCAL_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY_ACTION
MAX_JOB_PREEMPT
MAX_JOB_REQUEUE
MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY
MAX_TOTAL_TIME_PREEMPT
MIG
NICE
NO_PREEMPT_INTERVAL
REMOTE_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES
RESUME_CONTROL—overrides queue JOB_CONTROLS
SUSPEND_CONTROL—overrides queue JOB_CONTROLS
TERMINATE_CONTROL—overrides queue JOB_CONTROLS
Application proﬁle limits and queue limits
The following application proﬁle limits override the corresponding queue-level soft limits:
CORELIMIT
CPULIMIT
DATALIMIT
FILELIMIT
MEMLIMIT
PROCESSLIMIT
RUNLIMIT
STACKLIMIT
SWAPLIMIT
THREADLIMIT
Job-level limits can override the application proﬁle limits. The application proﬁle limits cannot override queue-level hard limits.
Deﬁne application-speciﬁc environment variables
500    IBM Spectrum LSF

You can use application proﬁles to pass application-speciﬁc tuning and runtime parameters to the application by deﬁning application-speciﬁc
environment variables. Once an environment variable is set, it applies for each job that uses the same application proﬁle. This provides a simple way
of extending application proﬁles to include additional information.
Environment variables can also be used with MPI to pass application-speciﬁc tuning or runtime parameters to MPI jobs. For example, when using a
speciﬁc MPI version and trying to get the best performance for Abaqus, you need to turn on speciﬁc flags and settings which must be in both the
mpirun command line and in the Abaqus launcher. Both mpirun and Abaqus allow you to deﬁne switches and options within an environment
variable, so you can set both of these in the application proﬁle and they are used automatically.
To set your own environment variables for each application, use the ENV_VARS parameter in lsb.applications. The value for ENV_VARS also applies to
the job’s pre-execution and post-execution environment. For example, a license key can be accessed by passing the license key location to the job.
To use ENV_VARS in an application proﬁle:
1. Conﬁgure the ENV_VARS parameter in lsb.applications.
2. Run badmin reconﬁg to have the changes take effect.
3. Optional: Run bapp –l to verify that the application is created and the variables are set:
bapp -l myapp 
APPLICATION NAME: myapp 
-- Test abc, solution 123 
STATISTICS: 
   NJOBS     PEND      RUN    SSUSP    USUSP      RSV 
       0        0        0        0        0        0 
PARAMETERS: 
ENV_VARS: "TEST_FRUIT='apple',TEST_CAR='civic'" 
4. Submit your job to the application.
admin@hostA: bsub -I -app myapp 'echo $TEST_FRUIT' 
Job <316> is submitted to default queue <interactive> 
<<Waiting for dispatch...>> 
<<Starting on hostA>> 
apple 
When changing the value for ENV_VARS, note the following:
Once the job is running, you cannot change the deﬁned values for any of the variables. However, you can still change them while the job is in
PEND state.
If you change the value for ENV_VARS before a checkpointed job resumes but after the initial job has run, then the job will use the new value
for ENV_VARS.
If you change the value for ENV_VARS then requeue a running job, the job will use the new value for ENV_VARS during the next run.
Any variable set in the user’s environment will overwrite the value in ENV_VARS. The application proﬁle value will overwrite the execution host
environment value.
If the same environment variable is named multiple times in ENV_VARS and given different values, the last value in the list will be the one
which takes effect.
Do not redeﬁne existing LSF environment variables in ENV_VARS.
Task limits
 TASKLIMIT in an application proﬁle speciﬁes the maximum number of tasks that can be allocated to a job. For parallel jobs, TASKLIMIT is the
maximum number of tasks that can be allocated to the job.
Task limits
TASKLIMIT in an application proﬁle speciﬁes the maximum number of tasks that can be allocated to a job. For parallel jobs, TASKLIMIT is the
maximum number of tasks that can be allocated to the job.
You can optionally specify the minimum and default number of tasks. All limits must be positive integers greater than or equal to 1 that satisfy the
following relationship:
1 <= minimum <= default <= maximum
Job-level tasks limits (bsub -n) override application-level TASKLIMIT, which overrides queue-level TASKLIMIT. Job-level limits must fall within the
maximum and minimum limits of the application proﬁle and the queue.
Absolute run limits
IBM Spectrum LSF 501

If you want the scheduler to treat any run limits as absolute, deﬁne ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y in lsb.params or in lsb.applications for the application proﬁle
that is associated with your job. When ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y is deﬁned in lsb.params or in the application proﬁle, the run time limit is not normalized by
the host CPU factor. Absolute wall-clock run time is used for all jobs submitted with a run limit conﬁgured.
Pre-execution
Queue-level pre-execution commands run before application-level pre-execution commands. Job level pre-execution commands (bsub -E) override
application-level pre-execution commands.
Post-execution
When a job ﬁnishes, post-execution commands run. For the order in which these commands run, refer to the section on Pre-Execution and Post-
Execution Processing.
If both application-level and job-level job-based post-execution commands (bsub -Ep) are speciﬁed, job level post-execution overrides application-
level post-execution commands. Only the ﬁrst host is over-ridden. Application level host-based post execution commands are not overwritten by –
Ep.
Re-runnable jobs
RERUNNABLE in an application proﬁle overrides queue-level job rerun, and allows you to submit re-runnable jobs to a non re-runnable queue. Job-
level rerun (bsub -r or bsub -rn) overrides both the application proﬁle and the queue.
Resource requirements
Application-level resource requirements can be simple (one requirement for all slots) or compound (different requirements for speciﬁed numbers of
slots). When resource requirements are set at the application-level as well as the job-level or queue-level, the requirements are combined in
different ways depending on whether they are simple or compound.
Simple job-level, application-level, and queue-level resource requirements are merged in the following manner:
If resource requirements are not deﬁned at the application level, simple job-level and simple queue-level resource requirements are merged.
When simple application-level resource requirements are deﬁned, simple job-level requirements usually take precedence. Speciﬁcally:
Section Simple resource requirement multi-level behavior
select All levels satisﬁed
same All levels combined
order
span
cuJob-level section overwrites application-level section, which overwrites queue-level section (if a given level is present)
rusage All levels merge
If conflicts occur the job-level section overwrites the application-level section, which overwrites the queue-level section.
afﬁnity Job-level section overwrites application-level section, which overwrites queue-level section (if a given level is present)
Compound application-level resource requirements are merged in the following manner:
When a compound resource requirement is set at the application level, it will be ignored if any job-level resource requirements (simple or
compound) are deﬁned.
In the event no job-level resource requirements are set, the compound application-level requirements interact with queue-level resource
requirement strings in the following ways:
If no queue-level resource requirement is deﬁned or a compound queue-level resource requirement is deﬁned, the compound
application-level requirement is used.
If a simple queue-level requirement is deﬁned, the application-level and queue-level requirements combine as follows:
Section Compound application and simple queue behavior
select Both levels satisﬁed; queue requirement applies to all compound terms
same Queue level ignored
502    IBM Spectrum LSF

Section Compound application and simple queue behavior
order
span
cuApplication-level section overwrites queue-level section (if a given level is present); queue requirement (if used)
applies to all compound terms
rusage Both levels merge
Queue requirement if a job-based resource is applied to the ﬁrst compound term, otherwise applies to all
compound terms
If conflicts occur the application-level section overwrites the queue-level section.
For example: if the application-level requirement is num1*{rusage[R1]} + num2*{rusage[R2]} and the
queue-level requirement is rusage[RQ] where RQ is a job resource, the merged requirement is num1*
{rusage[merge(R1,RQ)]} + num2*{rusage[R2]}
afﬁnity Job-level section overwrites application-level section, which overwrites queue-level section (if a given level is
present)
For internal load indices and duration, jobs are rejected if they specify resource reservation requirements at the job level or application level that
exceed the requirements speciﬁed in the queue.
If RES_REQ is deﬁned at the queue level and there are no load thresholds that are deﬁned, the pending reasons for each individual load index will not
be displayed by bjobs.
Resource requirement strings in select sections must conform to a more strict syntax. The strict resource requirement syntax only applies to the
select section. It does not apply to the other resource requirement sections (order, rusage, same, span, or cu). LSF rejects resource requirement
strings where an rusage section contains a non-consumable resource.
When the parameter RESRSV_LIMIT in lsb.queues is set, the merged application-level and job-level rusage consumable resource requirements must
satisfy any limits set by RESRSV_LIMIT, or the job will be rejected.
Estimated job run time and runtime limits
Instead of specifying an explicit runtime limit for jobs, you can specify an estimated run time for jobs. LSF uses the estimated value for job scheduling
purposes only, and does not kill jobs that exceed this value unless the jobs also exceed a deﬁned runtime limit.
The format of runtime estimate is same as the run limit set by the bsub -W option or the RUNLIMIT parameter in the lsb.queues and lsb.applications
ﬁle.
Use the JOB_RUNLIMIT_RATIO parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle to limit the runtime estimate users can set. If the JOB_RUNLIMIT_RATIO=0
parameter is set, no restriction is applied to the runtime estimate. The ratio does not apply to the RUNTIME parameter in the lsb.applications ﬁle.
The job-level runtime estimate setting overrides the RUNTIME setting in an application proﬁle in the lsb.applications ﬁle.
The following LSF features use the estimated runtime value to schedule jobs:
Job chunking
Advance reservation
SLA
Slot reservation
Backﬁll
Deﬁne a runtime estimate
Deﬁne the RUNTIME parameter at the application level. Use the bsub -We option at the job-level.
You can specify the runtime estimate as hours and minutes, or minutes only. The following examples show an application-level runtime estimate of 3
hours and 30 minutes:
RUNTIME=3:30
RUNTIME=210
Conﬁgure normalized run time
LSF uses normalized run time for scheduling to account for different processing speeds of the execution hosts.
Tip:
If you want the scheduler to use wall-clock (absolute) run time instead of normalized run time, deﬁne the ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y parameter in the
lsb.params or the lsb.applications ﬁle for the queue or application that is associated with your job.
IBM Spectrum LSF 503

LSF calculates the normalized run time by using the following formula:
NORMALIZED_RUN_TIME = RUNTIME * CPU_Factor_Normalization_Host / CPU_Factor_Execute_Host 
You can specify a host name or host model with the runtime estimate so that LSF uses a speciﬁc host name or model as the normalization host. If
you do not specify a host name or host model, LSF uses the CPU factor for the default normalization host as described in the following table.
Parameter deﬁned File Result
DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC   LSF selects the default normalization host for the queue.
DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC lsb.params LSF selects the default normalization host for the cluster.
No default host at either the queue or cluster level  LSF selects the submission host as the normalization host.
To specify a host name (deﬁned in lsf.cluster.clustername) or host model (deﬁned in the lsf.shared ﬁle) as the normalization host, insert the slash (/)
character between the minutes value and the host name or model, as shown in the following examples:
RUNTIME=3:30/hostA 
bsub -We 3:30/hostA 
LSF calculates the normalized run time by using the CPU factor that is deﬁned for hostA.
RUNTIME=210/Ultra5S 
bsub -We 210/Ultra5S 
LSF calculates the normalized run time by using the CPU factor that is deﬁned for host model Ultra5S.
Tip:
Use the lsinfo command to see host name and host model information.
Guidelines for deﬁning a runtime estimate
1. You can deﬁne an estimated run time, along with a runtime limit (at job level with the bsub -W command, at application level with the
RUNLIMIT in the lsb.applicationsﬁle, or at queue level with the RUNLIMIT parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle).
2. If the runtime limit is deﬁned, the job-level (-We) or application-level RUNTIME value must be less than or equal to the run limit. LSF ignores
the estimated runtime value and uses the run limit value for scheduling in either of the following situations:
The estimated runtime value exceeds the run limit value
An estimated runtime value is not deﬁned
Note: When LSF uses the run limit value for scheduling, and the run limit is deﬁned at more than one level, LSF uses the smallest run
limit value to estimate the job duration.
How estimated run time interacts with run limits
The following table includes all the expected behaviors for the combinations of job-level runtime estimate (-We), job-level run limit (-W), application-
level runtime estimate (RUNTIME), application-level run limit (RUNLIMIT), queue-level run limit (RUNLIMIT, both default and hard limit). Ratio is the
value of JOB_RUNLIMIT_RATIO parameter that is deﬁned in the lsb.params ﬁle. The dash (—) indicates that no value is deﬁned for the job.
Job-runtime
estimateJob-run limitApplication runtime
estimateApplication run
limitQueue default
run limitQueue hard run
limitResult
T1 — — — — — Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than
T1*ratio are killed
T1 T2>T1*ratio — — — — Job is rejected
T1 T2<=T1*ratio — — — — Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than T2 are
killed
T1 T2<=T1*ratio T3 T4 — — Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than T2 are
killed
T2 overrides T4 or T1*ratio
overrides T4
T1 overrides T3
T1 T2<=T1*ratio — — T5 T6 Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than T2 are
killed
If T2>T6, the job is rejected
504    IBM Spectrum LSF

Job-runtime
estimateJob-run limitApplication runtime
estimateApplication run
limitQueue default
run limitQueue hard run
limitResult
T1 — T3 T4 — — Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than
T1*ratio are killed
T2 overrides T4 or
T1*ratio overrides T4
T1 overrides T3
T1 — — — T5 T6 Job is accepted
Jobs running longer than
T1*ratio are killed
If T1*ratio>T6, the job is
rejected
Plan-based scheduling and reservations
Plan-based scheduling greatly improves the original scheduling and reservation features in LSF. Instead of looking only at current resource
availability, the scheduler can plan job placements for the near future. Reservations are then based on these planned allocation. Plan-based
scheduling is meant to be a replacement for legacy LSF reservation policies. When ALLOCATION_PLANNER is enabled, parameters related to the old
reservation features are ignored.
Enabling plan-based scheduling and reservations
 Enabling plan-based scheduling and reservations involves the parameters ALLOCATION_PLANNER and PLAN = Y. When plan-based
scheduling is enabled, parameters related to the old reservation features are ignored.
Plan-based allocation
 Plan-based scheduling and reservations requires an allocation plan.
Plan-based scheduling run time
 Plan-based scheduling provides an estimated run time for jobs when conﬁgured.
Plan-based scheduling limits and prioritization
 Plan-based scheduling follows speciﬁc limits and prioritization rules for LSF.
Reserving resources for an allocation plan
In order to enact the current allocation plan, LSF uses the existing reservation mechanism to hold resources idle as needed for plans. As a
general principle, LSF will try to reserve as few resources as possible in order to enact the plan.
Canceling planned allocations
 In an ideal world, once a planned allocation is created it will live until the job is dispatched on the resources of the planned allocation.
However, in cases where LSF detects that the planned allocation has become (or may have become) invalid, the planned allocation is
canceled.
Delaying planning for jobs
 In high throughput environments, it may be desirable for most jobs to use the standard LSF scheduling, without a plan. The planning based
reservation can be used only to help in cases of job starvation (that is, if it is pending for longer than expected).
Limiting the number of planned jobs
 When a reservation is enabled, this has the potential to decrease cluster utilization since LSF holds resources idle in order to avoid job
starvation. For this reason, some sites may wish to limit the number of jobs allowed in an allocation plan.
Adjusting the plan window
 The default plan-based scheduling window is 1 hour. The ALLOCATION_PLANNER parameter allows you to adjust this window.
Enabling plan-based scheduling and reservations
Enabling plan-based scheduling and reservations involves the parameters ALLOCATION_PLANNER and PLAN = Y. When plan-based scheduling is
enabled, parameters related to the old reservation features are ignored.
Enabling planning based scheduling
By default, planning based scheduling is disabled. To enable, in the lsb.params ﬁle, set the ALLOCATION_PLANNER parameter to Y.
By itself, this parameter does not have any effect on scheduling behavior. You need to separately identify sets of candidate jobs to consider in the
planner.
When planning based scheduled is enabled, it is recommended to enable the parameter BACKFILL=Y in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
IBM Spectrum LSF 505

Identifying jobs as candidates for planned reservations
To identify sets of jobs as candidates that should be considered by the scheduling planner, conﬁgure the parameter PLAN = Y at the application level
(lsb.applications ﬁle), at the queue level (lsb.queues ﬁle), or cluster level (lsb.params ﬁle).
When the parameter is conﬁgured at multiple levels, the application-level setting overrides the queue-level setting, which overrides the cluster-level
setting.
For jobs identiﬁed as candidates by this parameter, LSF will consider creation of an allocation plan. LSF will then reserve for jobs as needed in order
to execute the plan.
Plan-based allocation
Plan-based scheduling and reservations requires an allocation plan.
Viewing the allocation plan
Whenever the allocation plan is updated, the planner process dumps a snapshot of the allocation plan in JSON format to the LSF working directory,
located at $LSF_ENVDIR/../work/<clustername>/logdir/lsb.allocation.plan.json.
For example, the allocation plan with plans for two jobs would appear like the following:
> cat $LSF_ENVDIR/../work/montreal/logdir/lsb.allocation.plan.json 
{ 
  "TIMESTAMP":"Mar 29 15:07:50 2018", 
  "CHILD_PID":"18939", 
  "NUM_PLANS":"2", 
  "PLANS":[ 
    { 
      "JOB_ID":"montreal@172024", 
      "RANK":"1", 
      "START_TIME":"1522351070", 
      "START_TIME_H":"Mar 29 15:17:50 2018", 
      "FINISH_TIME":"1522351670", 
      "FINISH_TIME_H":"Mar 29 15:27:50 2018", 
      "ALLOC":[ 
        { 
          "HOST":"host0", 
          "RSRC":[ 
            { 
              "NAME":"slots", 
              "AMOUNT":23 
            } 
          ] 
        } 
      ] 
    }, 
    { 
      "JOB_ID":"montreal@172025", 
      "RANK":"2", 
      "START_TIME":"1522351752", 
      "START_TIME_H":"Mar 29 15:29:12 2018", 
      "FINISH_TIME":"1522352352", 
      "FINISH_TIME_H":"Mar 29 15:39:12 2018", 
      "ALLOC":[ 
        { 
          "HOST":"host0", 
          "RSRC":[ 
            { 
              "NAME":"slots", 
              "AMOUNT":23 
            } 
          ] 
        } 
      ] 
    } 
  ] 
} 
Viewing the allocation plan for a job
Users can view the allocation plan for individual jobs using the bjobs command with the –plan option. Use bjobs –plan to display PEND jobs with
allocation plans.
The bjobs –l command also displays allocation plan:
506    IBM Spectrum LSF

bjobs –l : display the planned start time for all jobs with a plan.
bjobs –l –plan : ﬁlter for jobs with plans, displaying the planned start time and planned allocation for each job.
Example: Filtering for jobs with a plan:
username1@intel4-74: bjobs -plan 
JOBID   USER      STAT  QUEUE   FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
172024  username1 PEND  normal  intel4                 x          Mar 29 15:07 
172025  username1 PEND  normal  intel4                 x          Mar 29 15:07 
Example: Viewing the planned start time for a job:
username1@intel4-71: bjobs -l 172024 
Job <172024>, User <uesrname1>, Project <default>, Status <PEND>, Queue <normal> 
                     , Job Priority <500>, Command <x> 
Thu Mar 29 15:07:26: Submitted from host <intel4>, CWD <$HOME>, 23 Task(s), Spe 
                     cified Hosts <host0>; 
 ESTIMATED_RUNTIME 
 10.0 min of intel4 based on user provided runtime estimation. 
 PENDING REASONS: 
 Not enough processors to meet the job's spanning requirement: 1 host; 
 Not specified in job submission: 4607 hosts; 
 Closed by LSF administrator: 1 host; 
 SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem 
 loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS: 
 Combined: select[type == any] order[r15s:pg] 
 Effective: - 
 PLANNED ALLOCATION: 
 Rank:        1 
 Start Time:  Mar 29 15:21:42 2018 
 Finish Time: Mar 29 15:31:42 2018 
Example: Viewing the planned start time and planned allocation for a job:
username1@intel4-73: bjobs -l -plan 172024 
Job <172024>, User <username1>, Project <default>, Status <PEND>, Queue <normal> 
                     , Job Priority <500>, Command <x> 
Thu Mar 29 15:07:26: Submitted from host <intel4>, CWD <$HOME>, 23 Task(s), Spe 
                     cified Hosts <host0>; 
 ESTIMATED_RUNTIME 
 10.0 min of intel4 based on user provided runtime estimation. 
 PENDING REASONS: 
 Not enough processors to meet the job's spanning requirement: 1 host; 
 Not specified in job submission: 4607 hosts; 
 Closed by LSF administrator: 1 host; 
 SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem 
 loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS: 
 Combined: select[type == any] order[r15s:pg] 
 Effective: - 
 PLANNED ALLOCATION: 
 Rank:        1 
 Start Time:  Mar 29 15:22:15 2018 
 Finish Time: Mar 29 15:32:15 2018 
 Resources: 
   host0 
     slots: 23 
Plan-based scheduling run time
Plan-based scheduling provides an estimated run time for jobs when conﬁgured.
Estimating run time of jobs
IBM Spectrum LSF 507

To make allocation plans, LSF needs estimated run times for all (or most) jobs. To simplify this, the parameter ESTIMATED_RUNTIME can be used to
have default estimated run times for classes of jobs.
The ESTIMATED_RUNTIME parameter can be speciﬁed at the application level (lsb.applications), the queue level (lsb.queues), or the cluster level
(lsb.params). When conﬁgured at multiple levels the application-level setting overrides the queue-level setting, which overrides the cluster-level
setting.
Alternatively, a job level estimated runtime can be set for a job with the bsub –We command. The job level setting overrides the conﬁgured settings
for estimated runtime.
Note: The ESTIMATED_RUNTIME parameter replaces the RUNTIME in lsb.applications.
If a job does not have an explicit estimated runtime, then the scheduler will estimate the runtime based on the run limit, CPU limit, and termination
time. When a job has none of these, the run times is assumed to be inﬁnite.
Viewing the estimated run time of a job
The bjobs –l command displays the estimated run time of a job with the ESTIMATED_RUNTIME section in the output. This output displays the
estimated run time, and also how this estimated run time is derived.
Example: Viewing the estimated run time of a job:
username1@intel4-79: bjobs -l 172025 
Job <172025>, User <username1>, Project <default>, Status <PEND>, Queue<normal> 
                     , Job Priority <500>, Command <x> 
Thu Mar 29 15:07:27: Submitted from host <intel4>, CWD <$HOME>, 23 Task(s),Spe 
                     cified Hosts <host0>; 
 ESTIMATED_RUNTIME: 
 10.0 min of intel4 based on user provided runtime estimation. 
 PENDING REASONS: 
 Not enough processors to meet the job's spanning requirement: 1 host; 
 Not specified in job submission: 4607 hosts; 
 Closed by LSF administrator: 1 host; 
... 
Plan-based scheduling limits and prioritization
Plan-based scheduling follows speciﬁc limits and prioritization rules for LSF.
Limits and the allocation plan
The planner maintains an allocation plan for jobs into the near future. As a general principle the planner should obey resource constraints and
conﬁgured limits for each point in time.
For example, if there is a limit conﬁgured of 20 jobs for a particular user, then in any plan generated by LSF the number of jobs concurrently running
in the plan at any point in time must be 20 or less.
Job prioritization
For jobs without a planned allocation, the jobs are scheduled using the standard LSF job prioritization policies in both the main scheduler (parent
mbschd) as well as the planner (child mbschd) process.
As usual, LSF considers jobs for dispatch queue-by-queue. When LSF schedules the jobs in a queue, it will ﬁrst try to dispatch jobs with planned
allocations on their planned. After those jobs are completed, LSF will then enter its standard scheduling flow and will consider jobs without planned
allocations.
For two jobs with a planned allocation and within the same queue, LSF orders them by rank. The rank of a planned allocation indicates the order in
which it was created, relative to other planned allocations from the same queue.
When a new planned allocation is created by the planner, it is assigned a rank larger than all other planned allocations from the same queue. The
rank of a particular planned allocation can change from plan to plan, but the relative orders between pairs is preserved.
The rank of a job’s future allocation can be viewed using the bjobs –l command.
Conﬁguring extendable run limits
 A job with an extendable run limit is allowed to continue running unless the resources that are occupied by the job are needed by another job
in a queue with the same or higher priority.
508    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguring extendable run limits
A job with an extendable run limit is allowed to continue running unless the resources that are occupied by the job are needed by another job in a
queue with the same or higher priority.
Before you begin
Ensure that ALLOCATION_PLANNER=Y is deﬁned in the lsb.params ﬁle to enable the allocation planner.
About this task
You can conﬁgure the LSF allocation planner to extend the run limits of a job by changing its soft run limit. A soft run limit can be extended, while a
hard run limit cannot be extended. The allocation planner looks at job plans to determine if there are any other jobs that require the current job's
resources.
Procedure
1. Edit lsb.queues.
2. Specify the EXTENDABLE_RUNLIMIT parameter for the queue and specify the base limit and other keywords for the run limit.
EXTENDABLE_RUNLIMIT=BASE[minutes] INCREMENT[minutes] GRACE[minutes] REQUEUE[Y | N]
This parameter uses the following keywords:
BASE[minutes]
The initial soft run limit that is imposed on jobs in the queue. Whenever the job reaches the soft run limit, the allocation planner
considers whether the resources that are held by the job are needed by another job in the queue by looking at plans for the other jobs.
If the resources are not required, LSF extends the soft run limit for the current job. Otherwise, LSF sets a hard run limit.
Specify an integer value for the initial soft run limit.
INCREMENT[minutes]
If LSF decides to extend the soft run limit for the job, this keyword speciﬁes the amount of time that LSF extends the soft run limit.
Specify an integer value for the soft run limit extension time. The default value is the value of the BASE[] keyword.
GRACE[minutes]
If LSF decides not to extend the soft run limit for the job, a hard run limit is set for this amount of minutes from the time the decision is
made.
The default value is 0 (the job is terminated or requeued immediately).
REQUEUE[Y | N]
Speciﬁes the action that LSF takes when a job reaches its hard run limit. If set to N, LSF terminates the job. If set to Y LSF requeues the
job.
The default value is N (LSF terminates the job once the job reaches its hard run limit).
For example,
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue_extendable  
PRIORITY = 10  
EXTENDABLE_RUNLIMIT = BASE[60] INCREMENT[30] GRACE[10]  
End Queue 
3. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
a. Runlsadmin reconﬁg.
b. Run badmin reconﬁg.
4. Run bqueues -l to display the extendable run limit settings.
Reserving resources for an allocation plan
In order to enact the current allocation plan, LSF uses the existing reservation mechanism to hold resources idle as needed for plans. As a general
principle, LSF will try to reserve as few resources as possible in order to enact the plan.
When deciding how many resources to reserve, LSF considers not only the raw resource availability (that is, slots, memory, licenses, etc.), but also
things like conﬁgured limits. For example, if a slot limit is conﬁgured for a user, and in the plan the user uses up to 100 slots concurrently, then LSF
may need to reserve up to 100 slots for that user’s PEND jobs in order to ensure that the plan can be carried out.
Due to such concerns, the amount of resources reserved on a host may exceed the capacity of the host in some cases. Reservations may also exceed
conﬁgured limits.
IBM Spectrum LSF 509

As in LSF releases before version 10.1.0.5, the resources reserved for a job can be viewed using the bjobs –l command. The slots / tasks reserved on
a host can be viewed using the bhosts command.
When a job is reserving resources for a planned allocation, the planned allocation becomes sticky in that LSF will not consider searching for a better
(earlier) planned allocation for the job once it starts reserving. Contrast this with jobs that do not reserve. For these, LSF will continuously look in the
planner to place the job where it will start earliest.
Canceling planned allocations
In an ideal world, once a planned allocation is created it will live until the job is dispatched on the resources of the planned allocation. However, in
cases where LSF detects that the planned allocation has become (or may have become) invalid, the planned allocation is canceled.
When this happens, the job becomes treated like a regular job without a future allocation, but may get another future allocation in the future.
Examples of cases where a planned allocation will be canceled:
The job is modiﬁed, switched, stopped, or killed.
Some host of the future allocation is no longer usable. The host may have died, been closed, exceeded a load threshold, or the LSF daemons
may be down.
A host of the allocation no longer satisﬁes the job’s requirements, such as the select requirement.
The estimated start time for the planned allocation has moved outside the planning window (default is 1 hour). For example, this could
happen if higher priority jobs are started on the resources of the planned allocation.
Delaying planning for jobs
In high throughput environments, it may be desirable for most jobs to use the standard LSF scheduling, without a plan. The planning based
reservation can be used only to help in cases of job starvation (that is, if it is pending for longer than expected).
To support this case, the PLAN = DELAY parameter setting is provided at the application, queue, or cluster level:
PLAN = DELAY[<minutes>]
This causes LSF to wait for the speciﬁed number of minutes following the submission of a job, to consider making a planned allocation for that job.
In the case that eligible scheduling time is enabled, LSF waits until the job’s eligible pending time has reached the delay time before it considers
making a planned allocation for the job.
When delay is speciﬁed at multiple levels, the application-level setting overrides the queue-level setting, which overrides the cluster-level setting.
Limiting the number of planned jobs
When a reservation is enabled, this has the potential to decrease cluster utilization since LSF holds resources idle in order to avoid job starvation. For
this reason, some sites may wish to limit the number of jobs allowed in an allocation plan.
This can be controlled with the PLAN parameter setting at the application, queue, or cluster level::
PLAN = MAX_JOBS[<num>]
When conﬁgured at multiple levels, the strictest of these will apply.
Adjusting the plan window
The default plan-based scheduling window is 1 hour. The ALLOCATION_PLANNER parameter allows you to adjust this window.
To adjust the window use the ALLOCATION_PLANNER parameter setting in the lsb.params conﬁguration ﬁle:
ALLOCATION_PLANNER = WINDOW[<minutes>]
A larger window has the potential to cause more computational effort in the planner process, and may result in a larger number of jobs with planned
allocations.
Distributing job resources to users in LSF
510    IBM Spectrum LSF

Learn how users can share job resources through LSF.
Conﬁgure resource consumers
 Learn how to conﬁgure and manage LSF user groups. Conﬁgure user group administrators and user group administrator rights. Import external
user groups. Conﬁgure existing user groups as LSF user groups. Add consumers to a guaranteed resource pool.
Specifying resource requirements
 Reserving resources
 Limiting job resource allocations
 Resource allocation limits conﬁgured in the lsb.resources ﬁle restrict the maximum amount of a resource requested by a job that can be
allocated during job scheduling for different classes of jobs to start. Conﬁgured limits also specify which resource consumers the limits apply
to. Conﬁgure all resource allocation limits in one or more Limit sections in the lsb.resources ﬁle.
Make sure LSF resources are distributed fairly
 Use runtime resource usage limits to control how much resource can be consumed by running jobs. Conﬁgure load thresholds so that Jobs
running under LSF can be automatically suspended and resumed based on the load conditions on the execution hosts. Learn about dispatch
and run windows and deadline constraint scheduling.
Preemptive scheduling
 The preemptive scheduling feature allows a pending high-priority job to preempt a running job of lower priority. The lower-priority job is
suspended and is resumed as soon as possible. Use preemptive scheduling if you have long-running, low-priority jobs causing high-priority
jobs to wait an unacceptably long time.
Conﬁgure resource consumers
Learn how to conﬁgure and manage LSF user groups. Conﬁgure user group administrators and user group administrator rights. Import external user
groups. Conﬁgure existing user groups as LSF user groups. Add consumers to a guaranteed resource pool.
Managing LSF user groups
 Learn how to conﬁgure LSF user groups and how to conﬁgure existing system user groups as LSF user groups. Use the external host and user
groups feature to maintain group deﬁnitions for your site in a location external to LSF.
Job groups
 A collection of jobs can be organized into job groups for easy management. A job group is a container for jobs in much the same way that a
directory in a ﬁle system is a container for ﬁles. For example, a payroll application may have one group of jobs that calculates weekly
payments, another job group for calculating monthly salaries, and a third job group that handles the salaries of part-time or contract
employees. Users can submit, view, and control jobs according to their groups rather than looking at individual jobs.
Host groups
 Host groups gather similar resources to the same group of hosts (for example, all hosts with big memory)- Use host groups to manage
dedicated resources for a single organization or to share resources across organizations. You can add limits to host groups, or deﬁne host
groups in queues to constrain jobs for a scheduling policy that is deﬁned over a speciﬁc set of hosts.
Managing LSF user groups
Learn how to conﬁgure LSF user groups and how to conﬁgure existing system user groups as LSF user groups. Use the external host and user groups
feature to maintain group deﬁnitions for your site in a location external to LSF.
User groups in LSF
 User groups act as aliases for lists of users. Administrators can also limit the total number of running jobs belonging to a user or a group of
users.
Existing user groups as LSF user groups
 User groups already deﬁned in your operating system often reflect existing organizational relationships among users. It is natural to control
computer resource access using these existing groups.
External host and user groups
 Use the external host and user groups feature to maintain group deﬁnitions for your site in a location external to LSF, and to import the group
deﬁnitions on demand.
Creating a user group using bconf
 
User groups in LSF
User groups act as aliases for lists of users. Administrators can also limit the total number of running jobs belonging to a user or a group of users.
How to deﬁne user groups
 You can deﬁne an LSF user group within LSF or use an external executable to retrieve user group members.
Where to conﬁgure user groups
 LSF user groups can be used in deﬁning several conﬁgurations.
Conﬁguring user groups
IBM Spectrum LSF 511

Conﬁguring user group administrators
Import external user groups (egroup)
When the membership of a user group changes frequently, or when the group contains a large number of members, you can use an external
executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than having to conﬁgure the group membership manually. You can write a site-
speciﬁc egroup executable that retrieves user group names and the users that belong to each group.
How to deﬁne user groups
You can deﬁne an LSF user group within LSF or use an external executable to retrieve user group members.
User groups conﬁgured within LSF can have user group administrators conﬁgured, delegating responsibility for job control away from cluster
administrators.
Use bugroup to view user groups and members, use busers to view all users in the cluster.
You can deﬁne user groups in LSF in several ways:
Use existing user groups in the conﬁguration ﬁles
Create LSF-speciﬁc user groups
Use an external executable to retrieve user group members
You can use all three methods, provided that the user and group names are different.
Where to conﬁgure user groups
LSF user groups can be used in deﬁning several conﬁgurations.
The following parameters in LSF conﬁguration ﬁles can specify user groups:
The USERS and ADMINISTRATORS parameters in the lsb.queues ﬁle. The ADMINISTRATORS parameter is optional.
The USER_NAME parameter for user job slot limits in the lsb.users ﬁle.
The USER_SHARES parameter (optional) for host partitions in the lsb.hosts ﬁle or for queue fair share policies in lsb.queues ﬁle.
The USERS parameter and the PER_USER parameter for resource limits or resource reservation in the lsb.resources ﬁle.
The USER_GROUP parameter and the ACCESS_CONTROL parameter for SLA access in the lsb.serviceclasses ﬁle.
Note: If you are using existing OS-level user groups instead of LSF-speciﬁc user groups, you can also specify the names of these groups in the ﬁles
mentioned above.
Conﬁguring user groups
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator to any host in the cluster.
2. Open lsb.users.
3. If the UserGroup section does not exist, add it:
Begin UserGroup 
GROUP_NAME      GROUP_MEMBER            USER_SHARES 
financial       (user1 user2 user3)     ([user1, 4] [others, 10]) 
system          (all)                   ([user2, 10] [others, 15]) 
regular_users   (user1 user2 user3 user4) - 
part_time_users (!)                       - 
End UserGroup
4. Specify the group name under the GROUP_NAME column.
External user groups must also be deﬁned in the egroup executable.
5. Specify users in the GROUP_MEMBER column.
For external user groups, put an exclamation mark (!) in the GROUP_MEMBER column to tell LSF that the group members should be retrieved
using egroup.
Note: If ENFORCE_UG_TREE=Y is deﬁned in lsb.params, all user groups must conform to a tree-like structure, and a user group can appear in
GROUP_MEMBER once at most. The second and subsequent occurrence of a user group in GROUP_MEMBER is ignored.
6. Optional: To enable hierarchical fair share, specify share assignments in the USER_SHARES column.
7. Save your changes.
8. Run badmin ckconﬁg to check the new user group deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
512    IBM Spectrum LSF

9. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure the cluster.
Conﬁguring user group administrators
About this task
By default, user group administrators can control all jobs that are submitted by users who are members of the user group.
Deﬁne STRICT_UG_CONTROL=Y in lsb.params to:
Conﬁgure user group administrators for user groups with all as a member
Limit user group administrators to controlling jobs in the user group when jobs are submitted with bsub -G.
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator to any host in the cluster.
2. Open lsb.users.
3. Edit the UserGroup section:
Begin UserGroup 
GROUP_NAME   GROUP_MEMBER       GROUP_ADMIN 
ugAdmins     (Toby Steve)      ( ) 
marketing    (user1 user2)      (shelley ugAdmins) 
financial    (user3 user1 ugA)  (john) 
engineering  (all)            ( ) 
End UserGroup
4. To enable user group administrators, specify users or user groups in the GROUP_ADMIN column.
Separate users and user groups with spaces, and enclose each GROUP_ADMIN entry in brackets.
5. Save your changes.
6. Run badmin ckconﬁg to check the new user group deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
7. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure the cluster.
Example
For example, for the conﬁguration shown and the default setting STRICT_UG_CONTROL=N in lsb.params, user1 submits a job:
bsub -G marketing job1.
job1 can be controlled by user group administrators for both the marketing and ﬁnancial user groups since user1 is a member of both groups.
With STRICT_UG_CONTROL=Y deﬁned, only the user group administrators for marketing can control job1. In addition, a user group administrator can
be set for the group engineering which has all as a member.
Conﬁguring user group administrator rights
 
Conﬁguring user group administrator rights
About this task
User group administrators with rights assigned can adjust user shares, adjust group membership, and create new user groups.
Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator to any host in the cluster.
2. Open lsb.users.
3. Edit the UserGroup section:
Begin UserGroup 
GROUP_NAME   GROUP_MEMBER     GROUP_ADMIN 
ugAdmins     (Toby Steve)     ( ) 
marketing    (user1 user2)    (shelley[full] ugAdmins) 
financial    (user3 ugA)      (john ugAdmins[usershares]) 
End UserGroup
4. To enable user group administrator rights, specify users or user groups in the GROUP_ADMIN column with the rights in square brackets.
IBM Spectrum LSF 513

no rights speciﬁed: user group admins can control all jobs submitted to the user group.
usershares: user group admins can adjust usershares using bconf and control all jobs submitted to the user group.
full: user group admins can create new user groups, adjust group membership, and adjust usershares using bconf, as well as control all
jobs submitted to the user group.
User group admins with full rights can only add a user group member to the user group if they also have full rights for the member user
group.
5. Save your changes.
6. Run badmin ckconﬁg to check the new user group deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
7. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure the cluster.
Import external user groups (egroup)
When the membership of a user group changes frequently, or when the group contains a large number of members, you can use an external
executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than having to conﬁgure the group membership manually. You can write a site-speciﬁc
egroup executable that retrieves user group names and the users that belong to each group.
For information about how to use the external host and user groups feature, see External host and user groups.
Existing user groups as LSF user groups
User groups already deﬁned in your operating system often reflect existing organizational relationships among users. It is natural to control
computer resource access using these existing groups.
You can specify existing UNIX user groups anywhere an LSF user group can be speciﬁed.
How LSF recognizes UNIX user groups
Only group members listed in the /etc/group ﬁle or the ﬁle group.byname NIS map are accepted. The user’s primary group as deﬁned in the
/etc/passwd ﬁle is ignored.
The ﬁrst time you specify a UNIX user group, LSF automatically creates an LSF user group with that name, and the group membership is retrieved by 
getgrnam(3) on the management host at the time mbatchd starts. The membership of the group might be different from the one on another host.
Once the LSF user group is created, the corresponding UNIX user group might change, but the membership of the LSF user group is not updated until
you reconﬁgure LSF (badmin). To specify a UNIX user group that has the same name as a user, use a slash (/) immediately after the group name:
group_name/.
Requirements
UNIX group deﬁnitions referenced by LSF conﬁguration ﬁles must be uniform across all hosts in the cluster. Unexpected results can occur if the UNIX
group deﬁnitions are not homogeneous across machines.
How LSF resolves users and user groups with the same name
If an individual user and a user group have the same name, LSF assumes that the name refers to the individual user. To specify the group name,
append a slash (/) to the group name.
For example, if you have both a user and a group named admin on your system, LSF interprets admin as the name of the user, and admin/ as the
name of the group.
Where to use existing user groups
Existing user groups can be used in deﬁning the following parameters in LSF conﬁguration ﬁles:
USERS in lsb.queues for authorized queue users
USER_NAME in lsb.users for user job slot limits
USER_SHARES (optional) in lsb.hosts for host partitions or in lsb.queues or lsb.users for queue fair share policies
External host and user groups
514    IBM Spectrum LSF

Use the external host and user groups feature to maintain group deﬁnitions for your site in a location external to LSF, and to import the group
deﬁnitions on demand.
About external host and user groups
 LSF provides you with the option to conﬁgure host groups, user groups, or both. When the membership of a host or user group changes
frequently, or when the group contains a large number of members, you can use an external executable called egroup to retrieve a list of
members rather than having to conﬁgure the group membership manually. You can write a site-speciﬁc egroup executable that retrieves host
or user group names and the hosts or users that belong to each group.
Conﬁguration to enable external host and user groups
 External host and user groups behavior
 On restart and reconﬁguration, mbatchd invokes the egroup executable to retrieve external host and user groups and then creates the groups
in memory; mbatchd does not write the groups to lsb.hosts or lsb.users. The egroup executable runs under the same user account as
mbatchd. By default, this is the primary cluster administrator account.
Between-host user Account mapping
 The between-host user account mapping feature enables job submission and execution within a cluster that has different user accounts
assigned to different hosts. Using this feature, you can map a local user account to a different user account on a remote host.
Cross-cluster user account mapping
 The cross-cluster user account mapping feature enables cross-cluster job submission and execution for a multicluster environment that has
different user accounts assigned to different hosts. Using this feature, you can map user accounts in a local cluster to user accounts in one or
more remote clusters.
UNIX and Windows user account mapping
 The UNIX and Windows user account mapping feature enables cross-platform job submission and execution in a mixed UNIX and Windows
environment. Using this feature, you can map Windows user accounts, which include a domain name, to UNIX user accounts, which do not
include a domain name, for user accounts with the same user name on both operating systems.
About external host and user groups
LSF provides you with the option to conﬁgure host groups, user groups, or both. When the membership of a host or user group changes frequently, or
when the group contains a large number of members, you can use an external executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than
having to conﬁgure the group membership manually. You can write a site-speciﬁc egroup executable that retrieves host or user group names and the
hosts or users that belong to each group.
You can write your egroup executable to retrieve group members for:
One or more host groups
One or more user groups
Any combination of host and user groups
LSF does not include a default egroup; you should write your own executable to meet the requirements of your site.
Default behavior (feature not enabled)
The following illustrations show the beneﬁts of using the external host and user groups feature.
IBM Spectrum LSF 515

With external host and user groups enabled
Scope
Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX
Windows
A mix of UNIX and Windows hosts
516    IBM Spectrum LSF

Applicability Details
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster and must have the correct permissions to
successfully run jobs.
The cluster must be reconﬁgured if you want to run the egroup executable to retrieve user group members. With a time
interval speciﬁed in EGROUP_UPDATE_INTERVAL, egroup members can be updated automatically.
Limitations The egroup executable works with static hosts only; you cannot use an egroup executable to add a dynamically added
host to a host group.
Not used with Host groups when you have conﬁgured EGO-enabled service-level agreement (SLA) scheduling because EGO resource
groups replace LSF host groups.
Conﬁguration to enable external host and user groups
To enable the use of external host and user groups, you must
Deﬁne the host group in lsb.hosts, or the user group in lsb.users, and put an exclamation mark (!) in the GROUP_MEMBER column.
Create an egroup executable in the directory speciﬁed by the environment variable LSF_SERVERDIR (set by cshrc.lsf and proﬁle.lsf). LSF does
not include a default egroup; you should write your own executable to meet the requirements of your site.
Run the badmin reconﬁg command ﬁrst to reconﬁgure the cluster, then wait for the cluster to be automatically reconﬁgured with the updated
external user groups.
The reconﬁguration for external user groups (egroups) is done automatically according to the time interval you specify in
EGROUP_UPDATE_INTERVAL.
Deﬁne an external host or user group
External host groups are deﬁned in lsb.hosts, and external user groups are deﬁned in lsb.users. Your egroup executable must deﬁne the same group
names that you use in the lsb.hosts and lsb.users conﬁguration ﬁles.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Default behavior
lsb.hosts GROUP_NAME and GROUP_MEMBER
hostgroup_name (!)Enables the use of an egroup executable to retrieve external host group
members.
The hostgroup_name speciﬁed in lsb.hosts must correspond to the group
name deﬁned by the egroup executable.
You can conﬁgure one or more host groups to use the egroup executable.
LSF does not support the use of external host groups that contain
dynamically added hosts.
You cannot set the preference level for a host group member, if its group
members is part of an egroup.
lsb.users GROUP_NAME GROUP or GROUP_MEMBER
usergroup_name (!)Enables the use of an egroup executable to retrieve external user group
members.
The usergroup_name speciﬁed in lsb.users must correspond to the group
name deﬁned by the egroup executable.
You can conﬁgure one or more user groups to use the egroup executable.
Create an egroup executable
The egroup executable must
Be located in LSF_SERVERDIR and follow these naming conventions:
Operating system Naming convention
UNIX LSF_SERVERDIR/egroup
Windows LSF_SERVERDIR\egroup.exe
or
LSF_SERVERDIR\egroup.bat
Run when invoked by the commands egroup –m hostgroup_name and egroup –u usergroup_name. When mbatchd ﬁnds an exclamation mark
(!) in the GROUP_MEMBER column of lsb.hosts or lsb.users, mbatchd runs the egroup command to invoke your egroup executable.
Output a space-delimited list of group members (hosts, users, or both) to stdout.
Retrieve a list of static hosts only. You cannot use the egroup executable to retrieve hosts that have been dynamically added to the cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 517

The following example shows a simple egroup script that retrieves both host and user group members:
#!/bin/sh 
if [ "$1" = "-m" ]; then #host group 
    if [ "$2" = "linux_grp" ]; then #Linux hostgroup 
        echo "linux01 linux 02 linux03 linux04" 
    elif [ "$2" = "sol_grp" ]; then #Solaris hostgroup 
        echo "Sol02 Sol02 Sol03 Sol04" 
    fi 
else #user group 
   if [ "$2" = "srv_grp" ]; then #srvgrp user group 
       echo "userA userB userC userD" 
   elif [ "$2" = "dev_grp" ]; then #devgrp user group 
       echo "user1 user2 user3 user4" 
   fi 
fi
External host and user groups behavior
On restart and reconﬁguration, mbatchd invokes the egroup executable to retrieve external host and user groups and then creates the groups in
memory; mbatchd does not write the groups to lsb.hosts or lsb.users. The egroup executable runs under the same user account as mbatchd. By
default, this is the primary cluster administrator account.
Once LSF creates the groups in memory, the external host and user groups work the same way as any other LSF host and user groups, including
conﬁguration and batch command usage.
Between-host user Account mapping
The between-host user account mapping feature enables job submission and execution within a cluster that has different user accounts assigned to
different hosts. Using this feature, you can map a local user account to a different user account on a remote host.
About between-host user account mapping
 For clusters with different user accounts assigned to different hosts., between-host user account mapping allows you to submit a job from a
local host and run the job as a different user on a remote host.
Conﬁguration to enable between-host user account mapping
 Between-host user account mapping can be conﬁgured in one of the two ways.
Between-host user account mapping behavior
 Between-host user account mapping commands
 
About between-host user account mapping
For clusters with different user accounts assigned to different hosts., between-host user account mapping allows you to submit a job from a local
host and run the job as a different user on a remote host.
There are two types of between-host user account mapping:
Local user account mapping: for UNIX or Windows hosts, a user can map the local user account to a different user on a remote host
Windows workgroup account mapping: allows LSF administrators to map all Windows workgroup users to a single Windows system account,
eliminating the need to create multiple users and passwords in LSF. Users can submit and run jobs using their local user names and
passwords, and LSF runs the jobs using the mapped system account name and password. With Windows workgroup account mapping, all
users have the same permissions because all users map to the same Windows system account.
Figure 1. Default behavior (feature not enabled)
Figure 2. With local user account mapping enabled
518    IBM Spectrum LSF

Figure 3. With Windows workgroup account mapping enabled
Scope
Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX hosts
Windows hosts
A mix of UNIX and Windows hosts within a single clusters
Not required for A cluster with a uniform user name space
A mixed UNIX/Windows cluster in which user accounts have the same user name on both operating systems
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster and must have the correct permissions to
successfully run jobs.
For clusters that include both UNIX and Windows hosts, you must also enable the UNIX/Windows user account mapping
feature.
Limitations For a MultiCluster environment that has different user accounts assigned to different hosts, you must also enable the
cross-cluster user account mapping feature. Do not conﬁgure between-host user account mapping if you want to use
system-level mapping in a multicluster environment; LSF ignores system-level mapping if mapping local user mapping is
also deﬁned in .lsfhosts.
For Windows workgroup account mapping in a Windows workgroup environment, all jobs run using the permissions
associated with the speciﬁed system account.
Conﬁguration to enable between-host user account mapping
Between-host user account mapping can be conﬁgured in one of the two ways.
Users can map their local accounts at the user level in the ﬁle .lsfhosts. This ﬁle must reside in the user’s home directory with owner
read/write permissions for UNIX and owner read-write-execute permissions for Windows. It must not be readable and writable by any other
user other than the owner. Save the .lsfhosts ﬁle without a ﬁle extension. Both the remote and local hosts must have corresponding mappings
in their respective .lsfhosts ﬁles.
LSF administrators can set up Windows workgroup account mapping at the system level in lsb.params.
Local user account mapping conﬁguration
Local user account mapping is enabled by adding lines to the ﬁle .lsfhosts. Both the remote and local hosts must have corresponding mappings in
their respective .lsfhosts ﬁles.
IBM Spectrum LSF 519

Conﬁguration ﬁle Syntax Behavior Conﬁguration ﬁle Syntax Behavior
.lsfhosts host_name user_name send Jobs sent from the local account run as user_name on host_name
host_name user_name recv The local account can run jobs that are received from user_name submitted on host_name
host_name user_name The local account can send jobs to and receive jobs from user_name on host_name
+ + The local account can send jobs to and receive jobs from any user on any LSF host
Windows workgroup account mapping
Windows workgroup account mapping is enabled by deﬁning the parameter SYSTEM_MAPPING_ACCOUNT in the ﬁle lsb.params.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Default behavior
lsb.params SYSTEM_MAPPING_ACCOUN
T
=accountEnables Windows workgroup account mapping
Windows local user accounts run LSF jobs using the system account name and
permissions
Between-host user account mapping behavior
Local user account mapping example
The following example describes how local user account mapping works when conﬁgured in the ﬁle .lsfhosts in the user’s home directory. Only
mappings conﬁgured in .lsfhosts on both the local and remote hosts work.
In the following example, the cluster contains hostA, hostB, and hostC. The account user1 is valid on all hosts except hostC, which requires a user
account name of user99.
To allow … On …In the home directory of
….lsfhosts must contain the line
…
The account user1 to run jobs on all hosts within the cluster:
user1 to send jobs to user99 on hostC hostA user1 hostC user99 send 
hostB user1 hostC user99 send 
user99 to receive jobs from user1 on either hostA or
hostBhostC user99 hostA user1 recv 
hostB user1 recv 
Windows workgroup account mapping example
The following example describes how Windows workgroup account mapping works when conﬁgured in the ﬁle lsb.params. In this example, the
cluster has a Windows workgroup environment, and only the user account jobuser is valid on all hosts.
To allow …In lsb.params,
conﬁgure …Behavior
All hosts within the cluster to run jobs
on any other host within the cluster:
Map all local users to user
account jobuserSYSTEM_MAPPING_A
CCOUNT=jobuser When any local user submits an LSF job, the job runs under the account jobuser,
using the permissions that are associated with the jobuser account.
Between-host user account mapping commands
Commands for submission
Command Description
520    IBM Spectrum LSF

Command Description
bsub Submits the job with the user name and password of the user who entered the command. The job runs on the execution
host with the submission user name and password, unless you have conﬁgured between-host user account mapping.
With between-host user account mapping enabled, jobs that execute on a remote host run using the account name
conﬁgured at the system level for Windows workgroups, or at the user level for local user account mapping.
Commands to monitor
Command Description
bjobs -l Displays detailed information about jobs, including the user name of the user who submitted the job and the user name
with which the job executed.
bhist -l Displays detailed historical information about jobs, including the user name of the user who submitted the job and the
user name with which the job executed.
Commands to control
Not applicable.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
bparams Displays the value of SYSTEM_MAPPING_ACCOUNT deﬁned in lsb.params.
badmin showconf Displays all conﬁgured parameters and their values set in lsf.conf or ego.conf that affect mbatchd and sbatchd.
Use a text editor to view other parameters in the lsf.conf or ego.conf conﬁguration ﬁles.
In a MultiCluster environment, displays the parameters of daemons on the local cluster.
Use a text editor to view the ﬁle .lsfhosts.
Cross-cluster user account mapping
The cross-cluster user account mapping feature enables cross-cluster job submission and execution for a multicluster environment that has different
user accounts assigned to different hosts. Using this feature, you can map user accounts in a local cluster to user accounts in one or more remote
clusters.
About cross-cluster user account mapping
 For multicluster environments that have different user accounts assigned to different hosts, cross-cluster user account mapping allows you to
submit a job from a local host and run the job as a different user on a remote host.
Conﬁguration to enable cross-cluster user account mapping
 You can enable cross-cluster user account mapping at the system or user level. The enablement is completed in different conﬁguration ﬁles,
but different users, depending on the conﬁguration level.
Cross-cluster user account mapping behavior
 Cross-cluster user account mapping commands
 
About cross-cluster user account mapping
For multicluster environments that have different user accounts assigned to different hosts, cross-cluster user account mapping allows you to submit
a job from a local host and run the job as a different user on a remote host.
Figure 1. Default behavior (feature not enabled)
IBM Spectrum LSF 521

Figure 2. With cross-cluster user account mapping enabled
Scope
Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX hosts
Windows hosts
A mix of UNIX and Windows hosts within one or more clusters
Not required for Multiple clusters with a uniform user name space
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster and must have the correct permissions to
successfully run jobs.
If users at your site have different user names on UNIX and Windows hosts within a single cluster, you must conﬁgure
between-host user account mapping at the user level in .lsfhosts.
Limitations You cannot conﬁgure this feature at both the system-level and the user-level; LSF ignores system-level mapping if user-
level mapping is also deﬁned in .lsfhosts.
If one or more clusters include both UNIX and Windows hosts, you must also conﬁgure UNIX and Windows user account
mapping.
If one or more clusters have different user accounts assigned to different hosts, you must also conﬁgure between-host
user account mapping for those clusters, and then conﬁgure cross-cluster user account mapping at the system level only.
Conﬁguration to enable cross-cluster user account mapping
You can enable cross-cluster user account mapping at the system or user level. The enablement is completed in different conﬁguration ﬁles, but
different users, depending on the conﬁguration level.
LSF administrators can map user accounts at the system level in the UserMap section of the lsb.users ﬁle. Both the remote and local clusters
must have corresponding mappings in their respective lsb.users ﬁles.
Users can map their local accounts at the user level in the .lsfhosts ﬁle. This ﬁle must reside in the user’s home directory with owner
read/write permissions for UNIX and owner read-write-execute permissions for Windows. Save the .lsfhosts ﬁle without a ﬁle extension. Both
the remote and local hosts must have corresponding mappings in their respective .lsfhosts ﬁles.
Restriction: Deﬁne either system-level or user-level mapping, but not both. LSF ignores system-level mapping if user-level mapping is also deﬁned in
.lsfhosts.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleLevel Syntax Behavior
lsb.users System Required ﬁelds: LOCAL,
REMOTE, and DIRECTIONMaps a user name on a local host to a different user name on a
remote host
Jobs that execute on a remote host run using a mapped user name
rather than the job submission user name
.lsfhosts User host_name user_name send Jobs sent from the local account run as user_name on host_name
host_name user_name recv The local account can run jobs received from user_name submitted
on host_name
522    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration
ﬁleLevel Syntax Behavior
host_name user_name The local account can send jobs to and receive jobs from user_name
on host_name
cluster_name user_name The local account can send jobs to and receive jobs from user_name
on any host in the cluster cluster_name
+ + The local account can send jobs to and receive jobs from any user on
any LSF hosts
Cross-cluster user account mapping behavior
System-level conﬁguration example
The following example illustrates LSF behavior when the LSF administrator sets up cross-cluster user account mapping at the system level. This
example shows the UserMap section of the ﬁle lsb.users on both the local and remote clusters.
On cluster1:
Begin UserMap 
LOCAL    REMOTE                             DIRECTION 
user1    user2@cluster2                     export 
user3    user6@cluster2                     export 
End UserMap
On cluster2:
Begin UserMap 
LOCAL    REMOTE                             DIRECTION 
user2    user1@cluster1                     import 
user6    user3@cluster1                     import 
End UserMap
The mappings between users on different clusters are as follows:
Figure 1. System-level mappings for both clusters
Only mappings conﬁgured in lsb.users on both clusters work. In this example, the common user account mappings are:
user1@cluster1 to user2@cluster2
user3@cluster1 to user6@cluster2
User-level conﬁguration examples
The following examples describe how user account mapping works when conﬁgured at the user level in the ﬁle .lsfhosts in the user’s home directory.
Only mappings that are conﬁgured in .lsfhosts on hosts in both clusters work.
To allow … On …In the home directory of
….lsfhosts must contain the line
…
The accounts user1 and user2 to run jobs on all hosts in both
clusters:
user1 to send jobs to and receive jobs from user2 on
cluster2All hosts in
cluster1user1 cluster2 user2 
user2 to send jobs to and receive jobs from user1 on
cluster1All hosts in
cluster2user2 cluster1 user1 
The account user1 to run jobs on cluster2 using the lsfguest
account:
user1 to send jobs as lsfguest to all hosts in cluster2 All hosts in
cluster1user1 cluster2 lsfguest send 
IBM Spectrum LSF 523

To allow … On …In the home directory of
….lsfhosts must contain the line
…
lsfguest to receive jobs from user1 on cluster1 All hosts in
cluster2lsfguest cluster1 user1 recv 
Cross-cluster user account mapping commands
Commands for submission
Command Description
bsub Submits the job with the user name and password of the user who entered the command. The job runs on the execution
host with the submission user name and password, unless you have conﬁgured cross-cluster user account mapping.
With cross-cluster user account mapping enabled, jobs that execute on a remote host run using the account name
conﬁgured at the system or user level.
Commands to monitor
Command Description
bjobs -l Displays detailed information about jobs, including the user name of the user who submitted the job and the user name
with which the job executed.
bhist -l Displays detailed historical information about jobs, including the user name of the user who submitted the job and the
user name with which the job executed.
UNIX and Windows user account mapping
The UNIX and Windows user account mapping feature enables cross-platform job submission and execution in a mixed UNIX and Windows
environment. Using this feature, you can map Windows user accounts, which include a domain name, to UNIX user accounts, which do not include a
domain name, for user accounts with the same user name on both operating systems.
About UNIX and Windows user account mapping
 In a mixed UNIX/Windows cluster, LSF treats Windows user names (with domain) and UNIX user names (no domain) as different users. The
UNIX/Windows user account mapping feature makes job submission and execution transparent across operating systems by mapping
Windows accounts to UNIX accounts. With this feature enabled, LSF sends the user account name in the format that is required by the
operating system on the execution host.
Conﬁguration to enable UNIX and Windows user account mapping
 Enable the UNIX/Windows user account mapping feature by deﬁning one or more LSF user domains using the LSF_USER_DOMAIN parameter
in lsf.conf.
UNIX and Windows user account mapping behavior
 The following examples describe how UNIX/Windows user account mapping enables job submission and execution across a mixed
UNIX/Windows cluster.
Conﬁguration to modify UNIX and Windows user account mapping behavior
 You can select a preferred execution domain for a particular job. The execution domain must be included in the LSF_USER_DOMAIN list. When
you specify an execution domain, LSF ignores the order of the domains listed in LSF_USER_DOMAIN and runs the job using the speciﬁed
domain. The environment variable LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN, deﬁned in the user environment or from the command line, deﬁnes the preferred
execution domain. Once you submit a job with an execution domain deﬁned, you cannot change the execution domain for that particular job.
UNIX and Windows user account mapping commands
 
About UNIX and Windows user account mapping
In a mixed UNIX/Windows cluster, LSF treats Windows user names (with domain) and UNIX user names (no domain) as different users. The
UNIX/Windows user account mapping feature makes job submission and execution transparent across operating systems by mapping Windows
accounts to UNIX accounts. With this feature enabled, LSF sends the user account name in the format that is required by the operating system on the
execution host.
Figure 1. Default behavior (feature not enabled)
524    IBM Spectrum LSF

Figure 2. With UNIX/Windows user account mapping enabled
For mixed UNIX/Windows clusters, UNIX/Windows user account mapping allows you to do the following:
Submit a job from a Windows host and run the job on a UNIX host
Submit a job from a UNIX host and run the job on a Windows host
Specify the domain\user combination that is used to run a job on a Windows host
Schedule and track jobs that are submitted with either a Windows or UNIX account as though the jobs belong to a single user
LSF supports the use of both single and multiple Windows domains. In a multiple domain environment, you can choose one domain as the preferred
execution domain for a particular job.
Existing Windows domain trust relationships apply in LSF. If the execution domain trusts the submission domain, the submission account is valid on
the execution host.
Scope
Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX and Windows hosts within a single cluster
Not required for Windows-only clusters
UNIX-only clusters
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster and must have the correct permissions to
successfully run jobs.
IBM Spectrum LSF 525

Applicability Details
Limitations This feature works with a uniform user name space. If users at your site have different user names on UNIX and Windows
hosts, you must enable between-host user account mapping.
This feature does not affect Windows workgroup installations. If you want to map all Windows workgroup users to a single
Windows system account, you must conﬁgure between-host user account mapping.
This feature applies only to job execution. If you issue an LSF command or deﬁne an LSF parameter and specify a
Windows user, you must use the long form of the user name, including the domain name typed in uppercase letters.
Conﬁguration to enable UNIX and Windows user account mapping
Enable the UNIX/Windows user account mapping feature by deﬁning one or more LSF user domains using the LSF_USER_DOMAIN parameter in
lsf.conf.
Important: Conﬁgure LSF_USER_DOMAIN immediately after you install LSF—changing this parameter in an existing cluster requires that you verify
and possibly reconﬁgure service accounts, user group memberships, and user passwords.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsf.conf LSF_USER_DOM
AIN=
domain_nameEnables Windows domain account mapping in a single-domain environment
To run jobs on a UNIX host, LSF strips the speciﬁed domain name from the user name
To run jobs on a Windows host, LSF appends the domain name to the user name
LSF_USER_DOM
AIN=
domain_name:d
omain_name…Enables Windows domain account mapping in a multi-domain environment
To run jobs on a UNIX host, LSF strips the speciﬁed domain names from the user name
To run jobs on a Windows host, LSF appends the ﬁrst domain name to the user name. If the ﬁrst
domain\user combination does not have permissions to run the job, LSF tries the next domain in the
LSF_USER_DOMAIN list.
LSF_USER_DOM
AIN= .Enables Windows domain account mapping
To run jobs on a UNIX host, LSF strips the local machine name from the user name
To run jobs on a Windows host, LSF appends the local machine name to the user name
UNIX and Windows user account mapping behavior
The following examples describe how UNIX/Windows user account mapping enables job submission and execution across a mixed UNIX/Windows
cluster.
When… In the ﬁle …And the job is
submitted by …The job …
UNIX/Windows user account
mapping is not enabled— BUSINESS\user
1 on a Windows
hostRuns on a Windows host as BUSINESS\user1
Fails on a UNIX host: BUSINESS\user1 is not a valid UNIX user
name
UNIX/Windows user account
mapping is not enabled— user1 on a UNIX
hostFails on a Windows host: Windows requires a domain\user
combination
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
BUSINESSlsf.conf BUSINESS\user
1 on a Windows
hostRuns on a Windows host as BUSINESS\user1
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
BUSINESSlsf.conf user1 on a UNIX
hostRuns on a Windows host as BUSINESS\user1
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
526    IBM Spectrum LSF

When… In the ﬁle …And the job is
submitted by …The job …
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
SUPPORT:ENGINEERINGlsf.conf SUPPORT\user1
on a Windows
hostRuns on a Windows host as SUPPORT\user1
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
SUPPORT:ENGINEERINGlsf.conf BUSINESS\user
1 on a Windows
hostRuns on a Windows host as BUSINESS\user1
Fails on a UNIX host: LSF cannot strip the domain name, and
BUSINESS\user1 is not a valid UNIX user name
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
SUPPORT:ENGINEERINGlsf.conf user1 on a UNIX
hostRuns on a Windows host as SUPPORT\user1; if the job cannot run
with those credentials, the job runs as ENGINEERING\user1
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
Conﬁguration to modify UNIX and Windows user account mapping
behavior
You can select a preferred execution domain for a particular job. The execution domain must be included in the LSF_USER_DOMAIN list. When you
specify an execution domain, LSF ignores the order of the domains listed in LSF_USER_DOMAIN and runs the job using the speciﬁed domain. The
environment variable LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN, deﬁned in the user environment or from the command line, deﬁnes the preferred execution domain.
Once you submit a job with an execution domain deﬁned, you cannot change the execution domain for that particular job.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
.cshrc
.proﬁleLSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN
=
domain_nameSpeciﬁes the domain that LSF uses to run jobs on a Windows host
If LSF_USER_DOMAIN contains a list of multiple domains, LSF tries the LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN
ﬁrst
The following example shows the changed behavior when you deﬁne the LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN.
When… In the ﬁle …And the job is
submitted by …The job …
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=
SUPPORT:ENGINEERING
and
LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN=
ENGINEERINGlsf.conf
.proﬁle .cshrcuser1 on a
UNIX hostRuns on a Windows host as ENGINEERING\user1; if the job cannot
run with those credentials, runs as SUPPORT\user1
Runs on a UNIX host as user1
These additional examples are based on the following conditions:
In lsf.conf, LSF_USER_DOMAIN=SALES:ENGINEERING:BUSINESS
The user has sufﬁcient permissions to run the job in any of the LSF user domains
UNIX user1 enters … And LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN is … Then LSF runs the job as …
bsub -m "hostb" myjob Not deﬁned in the user environment ﬁleSALES\user1
bsub -m "hostb" myjob Deﬁned as BUSINESS in the user
environment ﬁleBUSINESS\user1
setenv LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN BUSINESSbsub
-m "hostb" myjobEither deﬁned or not deﬁned in the user
environment ﬁleBUSINESS\user1 The command line overrides the
user environment ﬁle.
UNIX and Windows user account mapping commands
Commands for submission
IBM Spectrum LSF 527

Command Description Command Description
bsub Submits the job with the user name and password of the user who entered the command. The job runs on the execution
host with the same user name and password, unless you have conﬁgured UNIX/Windows user account mapping.
With UNIX/Windows user account mapping enabled, jobs that execute on a remote host run with the user account name in
the format required by the operating system on the execution host.
Commands to monitor
Command Description
bjobs -w Displays detailed information about jobs.
Displays the long form of the Windows user name including the domain name.
Commands to control
Command Description
lspasswd Registers a password for a Windows user account. Windows users must register a password for each domain\user account
using this command.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
bugroup -w Displays information about user groups.
If UNIX/Windows user account mapping is enabled, the command bugroup displays user names without domains.
If UNIX/Windows user account mapping is not enabled, the command bugroup displays user names with domains.
busers Displays information about speciﬁc users and user groups.
If UNIX/Windows user account mapping is enabled, the command busers displays user names without domains.
If UNIX/Windows user account mapping is not enabled, the command busers displays user names with domains.
badmin showconf Displays all conﬁgured parameters and their values set in lsf.conf or ego.conf that affect mbatchd and sbatchd.
Use a text editor to view other parameters in the lsf.conf or ego.conf conﬁguration ﬁles.
In a MultiCluster environment, displays the parameters of daemons on the local cluster.
Creating a user group using bconf
Procedure
Run bconf create usergroup=group_name
For example:
bconf create usergroup=ug12 "GROUP_MEMBER=user1 user2 ; USER_SHARES=[user1, 5] 
[user2, 2] ; GROUP_ADMIN=admin1" 
bconf: Request for usergroup <ug12> accepted
Once accepted by bconf, the new user group appears in bugroup output:
bugroup -l ug12 
GROUP_NAME:  ug12 
USERS:       user2 user1 
GROUP_ADMIN: admin1 
SHARES:      [user1, 5] [user2, 2]
Removing a user group member using bconf
528    IBM Spectrum LSF

About this task
You can remove members from a user group using live reconﬁguration.
And removing the speciﬁed group member, all references to the group member are updated as required.
Procedure
Run bconf rmmember usergroup=group_name "GROUP_MEMBER=user_name"
For example:
bconf rmmember usergroup=ug12 "GROUP_MEMBER=user1"  
bconf: Request for usergroup <ug12> accepted
Once accepted by bconf, the changed user group appears in bugroup output:
bugroup -l ug12 
GROUP_NAME:  ug12 
USERS:       user2 
GROUP_ADMIN: admin1 
SHARES:      [user2, 2]
Notice the SHARES entry for user1 is also removed.
Job groups
A collection of jobs can be organized into job groups for easy management. A job group is a container for jobs in much the same way that a directory
in a ﬁle system is a container for ﬁles. For example, a payroll application may have one group of jobs that calculates weekly payments, another job
group for calculating monthly salaries, and a third job group that handles the salaries of part-time or contract employees. Users can submit, view,
and control jobs according to their groups rather than looking at individual jobs.
How job groups are created
Job groups can be created explicitly or implicitly:
A job group is created explicitly with the bgadd command.
A job group is created implicitly by the bsub -g or bmod -g command when the speciﬁed group does not exist. Job groups are also created
implicitly when a default job group is conﬁgured (DEFAULT_JOBGROUP in lsb.params or LSB_DEFAULT_JOBGROUP environment variable).
Job groups that are created when jobs are attached to an SLA service class at submission are implicit job groups (bsub -sla
service_class_name -g job_group_name). Job groups that are attached to an SLA service class with bgadd are explicit job groups (bgadd -
sla service_class_name job_group_name).
The GRP_ADD event in lsb.events indicates how the job group was created:
0x01 - job group was created explicitly
0x02 - job group was created implicitly
For example:
GRP_ADD" "7.02" 1193032735 1285 1193032735 0 "/Z" "" "user1" "" "" 2 0 "" -1 1
Means job group /Z is an explicitly created job group.
Child groups can be created explicitly or implicitly under any job group. Only an implicitly created job group which has no job group limit (bgadd -L)
and is not attached to any SLA can be automatically deleted once it becomes empty. An empty job group is a job group that has no jobs that are
associated with it (including ﬁnished jobs). NJOBS displayed by bjgroup is 0.
Job group hierarchy
Jobs in job groups are organized into a hierarchical tree similar to the directory structure of a ﬁle system. Like a ﬁle system, the tree contains groups
(which are like directories) and jobs (which are like ﬁles). Each group can contain other groups or individual jobs. Job groups are created
independently of jobs, and can have dependency conditions which control when jobs within the group are considered for scheduling.
Job group path
The job group path is the name and location of a job group within the job group hierarchy. Multiple levels of job groups can be deﬁned to form a
hierarchical tree. A job group can contain jobs and sub-groups.
IBM Spectrum LSF 529

Root job group
LSF maintains a single tree under which all jobs in the system are organized. The top-most level of the tree is represented by a top-level “root” job
group, named “/”. The root group is owned by the primary LSF Administrator and cannot be removed. Users and administrators create new groups
under the root group. By default, if you do not specify a job group path name when submitting a job, the job is created under the top-level “root” job
group, named “/”.
The root job group is not displayed by job group query commands, and you cannot specify the root job in commands.
Job group owner
Each group is owned by the user who created it. The login name of the user who creates the job group is the job group owner. Users can add job
groups into a group that are owned by other users, and they can submit jobs to groups owned by other users. Child job groups are owned by the
creator of the job group and the creators of any parent groups.
Job control under job groups
Job owners can control their own jobs that are attached to job groups as usual. Job group owners can also control any job under the groups they own
and below.
For example:
Job group /A is created by user1
Job group /A/B is created by user2
Job group /A/B/C is created by user3
All users can submit jobs to any job group, and control the jobs they own in all job groups. For jobs submitted by other users:
user1 can control jobs that are submitted by other users in all three job groups: /A, /A/B, and /A/B/C
user2 can control jobs that are submitted by other users only in two job groups: /A/B and /A/B/C
user3 can control jobs that are submitted by other users only in job group /A/B/C
The LSF administrator can control jobs in any job group.
Default job group
You can specify a default job group for jobs submitted without explicitly specifying a job group. LSF associates the job with the job group speciﬁed
with DEFAULT_JOBGROUP in lsb.params. The LSB_DEFAULT_JOBGROUP environment variable overrides the setting of DEFAULT_JOBGROUP. The
bsub -g job_group_name option overrides both LSB_DEFAULT_JOBGROUP and DEFAULT_JOBGROUP.
Default job group speciﬁcation supports macro substitution for project name (%p) and user name (%u). When you specify bsub -P project_name, the
value of %p is the speciﬁed project name. If you do not specify a project name at job submission, %p is the project name deﬁned by setting the
environment variable LSB_DEFAULTPROJECT, or the project name speciﬁed by DEFAULT_PROJECT in lsb.params. the default project name is default.
For example, a default job group name speciﬁed by DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/canada/%p/%u is expanded to the value for the LSF project name and the
user name of the job submission user (for example, /canada/projects/user1).
Job group names must follow this format:
Job group names must start with a slash character (/). For example, DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/A/B/C is correct, but DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=A/B/C
is not correct.
Job group names cannot end with a slash character (/). For example, DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/A/ is not correct.
Job group names cannot contain more than one slash character (/) in a row. For example, job group names like DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/A//B or
DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=A////B are not correct.
Job group names cannot contain spaces. For example, DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/A/B C/D is not correct.
Project names and user names used for macro substitution with %p and %u cannot start or end with slash character (/).
Project names and user names used for macro substitution with %p and %u cannot contain spaces or more than one slash character (/) in a
row.
Project names or user names containing slash character (/) will create separate job groups. For example, if the project name is
canada/projects, DEFAULT_JOBGROUP=/%p results in a job group hierarchy /canada/projects.
Job group limits
Job group limits speciﬁed with bgadd -L apply to the job group hierarchy. The job group limit is a positive number greater than or equal to
zero, specifying the maximum number of running and suspended jobs under the job group (including child groups). If limit is zero, no jobs
under the job group can run. By default, a job group has no limit. Limits persist across mbatchd restart and reconﬁguration.
Creating a job group
 Submitting jobs under a job group
 Viewing information about job groups (bjgroup)
 Viewing jobs for a speciﬁc job group (bjobs)
 Job groups and time-based SLAs
 Job groups provide a method for assigning arbitrary labels to groups of jobs. Typically, job groups represent a project hierarchy. You can use -g
530    IBM Spectrum LSF

with -sla at job submission to attach all jobs in a job group to a service class and have them scheduled as SLA jobs, subject to the scheduling
policy of the SLA. Within the job group, resources are allocated to jobs on a fair share basis.
Control jobs in job groups
Suspend and resume jobs in job groups, move jobs to different job groups, terminate jobs in job groups, and delete job groups.
Automatic job group cleanup
When an implicitly created job group becomes empty, it can be automatically deleted by LSF.
Job group limits
Job group limits speciﬁed with bgadd -L apply to the job group hierarchy. The job group limit is a positive number greater than or equal to zero,
specifying the maximum number of running and suspended jobs under the job group (including child groups). If limit is zero, no jobs under the job
group can run. By default, a job group has no limit. Limits persist across mbatchd restart and reconﬁguration.
You cannot specify a limit for the root job group. The root job group has no job limit. Job groups added with no limits speciﬁed inherit any limits of
existing parent job groups. The -L option only limits the lowest level job group created. The maximum number of running and suspended jobs
(including USUSP and SSUSP) in a job group cannot exceed the limit deﬁned on the job group and its parent job group.
The job group limit is based on the number of running and suspended jobs in the job group. If you specify a job group limit as 2, at most 2 jobs can
run under the group at any time, regardless of how many jobs or job slots are used. If the currently available job slots is zero, even if the job group job
limit is not exceeded, LSF cannot dispatch a job to the job group.
If a parallel job requests 2 CPUs (bsub -n 2), the job group limit is per job, not per slots used by the job.
A job array may also be under a job group, so job arrays also support job group limits.
Job group limits are not supported at job submission for job groups that are created automatically with bsub -g. Use bgadd -L before job submission.
Jobs forwarded to the execution cluster in a multicluster environment are not counted towards the job group limit.
Examples
bgadd -L 6 /canada/projects/test
If /canada is existing job group, and /canada/projects and /canada/projects/test are new groups, only the job group
/canada/projects/test is limited to 6 running and suspended jobs. Job group /canada/projects will have whatever limit is speciﬁed for its
parent job group /canada. The limit of /canada does not change.
The limits on child job groups cannot exceed the parent job group limit. For example, if /canada/projects has a limit of 5:
bgadd -L 6 /canada/projects/test
is rejected because /canada/projects/test attempts to increase the limit of its parent /canada/projects from 5 to 6.
Example job group hierarchy with limits
In this conﬁguration:
Every node is a job group, including the root (/) job group
The root (/) job group cannot have any limit deﬁnition
By default, child groups have the same limit deﬁnition as their direct parent group, so /asia, /asia/projects, and /asia/projects/test
all have no limit
The number of running and suspended jobs in a job group (including all of its child groups) cannot exceed the deﬁned limit
If there are 7 running or suspended jobs in job group /canada/projects/test1, even though the job limit of group /canada/qa/auto is 6,
/canada/qa/auto can only have a maximum of 5 running and suspended (12-7=5)
When a job is submitted to a job group, LSF checks the limits for the entire job group. For example, for a job is submitted to job group
/canada/qa/auto, LSF checks the limits on groups /canada/qa/auto, /canada/qa and /canada. If any one limit in the branch of the
hierarchy is exceeded, the job remains pending
The zero job limit for job group /canada/qa/manual means that no job in the job group can enter running status
IBM Spectrum LSF 531

Creating a job group
Procedure
Use the bgadd command to create a new job group.
You must provide full group path name for the new job group. The last component of the path is the name of the new group to be created:
bgadd /risk_group
The preceding example creates a job group named risk_group under the root group /.
bgadd /risk_group/portfolio1
The preceding example creates a job group named portfolio1 under job group /risk_group.
bgadd /risk_group/portfolio1/current
The preceding example creates a job group named current under job group /risk_group/portfolio1.
If the group hierarchy /risk_group/portfolio1/current does not exist, LSF checks its parent recursively, and if no groups in the hierarchy exist,
all three job groups are created with the speciﬁed hierarchy.
Adding a job group limit (bgadd)
Procedure
Run bgadd -L limit /job_group_name to specify a job limit for a job group.
Where limit is a positive number greater than or equal to zero, specifying the maximum the number of running and suspended jobs under the job
group (including child groups) If limit is zero, no jobs under the job group can run.
For example:
bgadd -L 6 /canada/projects/test 
If /canada is existing job group, and /canada/projects and /canada/projects/test are new groups, only the job group
/canada/projects/test is limited to 6 running and suspended jobs. Job group /canada/projects will have whatever limit is speciﬁed for its
parent job group /canada. The limit of /canada does not change.
Submitting jobs under a job group
Procedure
Use the -g option of bsub to submit a job into a job group.
The job group does not have to exist before submitting the job.
bsub -g /risk_group/portfolio1/current myjob 
Job <105> is submitted to default queue.
Submits myjob to the job group /risk_group/portfolio1/current.
If group /risk_group/portfolio1/current exists, job 105 is attached to the job group.
If group /risk_group/portfolio1/current does not exist, LSF checks its parent recursively, and if no groups in the hierarchy exist, all three job
groups are created with the speciﬁed hierarchy and the job is attached to group.
Example
-g and -sla options
Tip:
Use -sla with -g to attach all jobs in a job group to a service class and have them scheduled as SLA jobs. Multiple job groups can be created
under the same SLA. You can submit more jobs to the job group without specifying the service class name again.
Multicluster
In a multicluster job forwarding mode, job groups only apply on the submission cluster, not on the execution cluster. LSF treats the execution
cluster as execution engine, and only enforces job group policies at the submission cluster.
Jobs forwarded to the execution cluster in a multicluster environment are not counted towards job group limits.
532    IBM Spectrum LSF

Viewing information about job groups (bjgroup)
Procedure
1. Use the bjgroup command to see information about jobs in job groups.
bjgroup 
GROUP_NAME         NJOBS   PEND    RUN    SSUSP  USUSP  FINISH  SLA   JLIMIT  OWNER 
/A                 0       0       0      0      0      0        ()    0/10  user1 
/X                 0       0       0      0      0      0        ()     0/-  user2 
/A/B               0       0       0      0      0      0        ()     0/5  user1 
/X/Y               0       0       0      0      0      0        ()     0/5  user2
2. Use bjgroup -s to sort job groups by group hierarchy.
For example, for job groups named /A, /A/B, /X and /X/Y, bjgroup -s displays:
bjgroup -s 
GROUP_NAME         NJOBS   PEND    RUN    SSUSP  USUSP  FINISH  SLA   JLIMIT  OWNER 
/A                 0       0       0      0      0      0       ()       0/10  user1 
/A/B               0       0       0      0      0      0       ()       0/5  user1 
/X                 0       0       0      0      0      0       ()       0/-  user2 
/X/Y               0       0       0      0      0      0       ()       0/5  user2
3. Specify a job group name to show the hierarchy of a single job group:
bjgroup -s /X 
GROUP_NAME   NJOBS  PEND   RUN   SSUSP  USUSP  FINISH       SLA   JLIMIT  OWNER 
/X              25     0    25       0      0       0   puccini  25/100   user1 
/X/Y            20     0    20       0      0       0   puccini   20/30   user1 
/X/Z             5     0     5       0      0       0   puccini    5/10   user2
4. Specify a job group name with a trailing slash character (/) to show only the root job group:
bjgroup -s /X/ 
GROUP_NAME   NJOBS  PEND   RUN   SSUSP  USUSP  FINISH      SLA   JLIMIT  OWNER 
/X               25    0    25       0      0       0   puccini  25/100  user1
5. Use bjgroup -N to display job group information by job slots instead of number of jobs. NSLOTS, PEND, RUN, SSUSP, USUSP, RSV are all
counted in slots rather than number of jobs:
bjgroup -N 
GROUP_NAME NSLOTS PEND   RUN   SSUSP  USUSP   RSV      SLA     OWNER 
/X             25    0    25       0      0     0  puccini     user1 
/A/B           20    0    20       0      0     0   wagner     batch
-N by itself shows job slot info for all job groups, and can combine with -s to sort the job groups by hierarchy:
bjgroup -N -s 
GROUP_NAME NSLOTS PEND   RUN   SSUSP   USUSP  RSV      SLA     OWNER 
/A              0    0     0       0       0    0   wagner      batch 
/A/B            0    0     0       0       0    0   wagner      user1 
/X             25    0    25       0       0    0   puccini     user1 
/X/Y           20    0    20       0       0    0   puccini     batch 
/X/Z            5     0    5       0       0    0   puccini     batch
Viewing jobs for a speciﬁc job group (bjobs)
Procedure
Run bjobs -g and specify a job group path to view jobs that are attached to the speciﬁed group.
bjobs -g /risk_group 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME  
113     user1   PEND  normal     hostA                   myjob     Jun 17 16:15  
111     user2   RUN   normal     hostA       hostA       myjob     Jun 14 15:13  
110     user1   RUN   normal     hostB       hostA       myjob     Jun 12 05:03  
104     user3   RUN   normal     hostA       hostC       myjob     Jun 11 13:18
bjobs -l displays the full path to the group to which a job is attached:
bjobs -l -g /risk_group 
Job <101>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Job Group </risk_group>, Status <RUN>,  
Queue <normal>, Command <myjob> 
Tue Jun 17 16:21:49 2009: Submitted from host <hostA>, CWD </home/user1;  
IBM Spectrum LSF 533

Tue Jun 17 16:22:01 2009: Started on <hostA>;  
...
Job groups and time-based SLAs
Job groups provide a method for assigning arbitrary labels to groups of jobs. Typically, job groups represent a project hierarchy. You can use -g with -
sla at job submission to attach all jobs in a job group to a service class and have them scheduled as SLA jobs, subject to the scheduling policy of the
SLA. Within the job group, resources are allocated to jobs on a fair share basis.
All jobs submitted to a group under an SLA automatically belong to the SLA itself. You cannot modify a job group of a job that is attached to an SLA.
A job group hierarchy can belong to only one SLA.
It is not possible to have some jobs in a job group not part of the service class. Multiple job groups can be created under the same SLA. You can
submit additional jobs to the job group without specifying the service class name again.
If the speciﬁed job group does not exist, it is created and attached to the SLA.
You can also use -sla to specify a service class when you create a job group with bgadd.
Viewing job groups attached to a time-based SLA (bjgroup)
 
Viewing job groups attached to a time-based SLA (bjgroup)
Procedure
Run bjgroup to display job groups that are attached to a time-based SLA:
bjgroup 
GROUP_NAME  NJOBS  PEND   RUN   SSUSP  USUSP  FINISH      SLA   JLIMIT  OWNER 
/fund1_grp      5     4     0       1      0      0   Venezia     1/5   user1 
/fund2_grp     11     2     5       0      0      4   Venezia     5/5   user1 
/bond_grp       2     2     0       0      0      0   Venezia     0/-   user2 
/risk_grp       2     1     1       0      0      0        ()     1/-   user2 
/admi_grp       4     4     0       0      0      0        ()     0/-   user2
bjgroup displays the name of the service class that the job group is attached to with bgadd -sla service_class_name. If the job group is not attached
to any service class, empty parentheses () are displayed in the SLA name column.
Control jobs in job groups
Suspend and resume jobs in job groups, move jobs to different job groups, terminate jobs in job groups, and delete job groups.
Suspending jobs (bstop)
 Resuming suspended jobs (bresume)
 Moving jobs to a different job group (bmod)
 Terminating jobs (bkill)
 Deleting a job group manually (bgdel)
 Modifying a job group limit (bgmod)
 
Suspending jobs (bstop)
Procedure
1. Use the -g option of bstop and specify a job group path to suspend jobs in a job group
bstop -g /risk_group 106 
Job <106> is being stopped
2. Use job ID 0 (zero) to suspend all jobs in a job group:
bstop -g /risk_group/consolidate 0 
Job <107> is being stopped  
534    IBM Spectrum LSF

Job <108> is being stopped  
Job <109> is being stopped
Resuming suspended jobs (bresume)
Procedure
1. Use the -g option of bresume and specify a job group path to resume suspended jobs in a job group:
bresume -g /risk_group 106 
Job <106> is being resumed
2. Use job ID 0 (zero) to resume all jobs in a job group:
bresume -g /risk_group 0 
Job <109> is being resumed  
Job <110> is being resumed  
Job <112> is being resumed
Moving jobs to a different job group (bmod)
Procedure
Use the -g option of bmod and specify a job group path to move a job or a job array from one job group to another.
bmod -g /risk_group/portfolio2/monthly 105
Moves job 105 to job group /risk_group/portfolio2/monthly.
Like bsub -g, if the job group does not exist, LSF creates it.
bmod -g cannot be combined with other bmod options. It can only operate on pending jobs. It cannot operate on running or ﬁnished jobs.
If you deﬁne LSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS=Y in lsf.conf, bmod -g can also operate on running jobs.
You can modify your own job groups and job groups that other users create under your job groups. The LSF administrator can modify job groups of all
users.
You cannot move job array elements from one job group to another, only entire job arrays. If any job array elements in a job array are running, you
cannot move the job array to another group. A job array can only belong to one job group at a time.
You cannot modify the job group of a job that is attached to a service class.
bhist -l shows job group modiﬁcation information:
bhist -l 105 
Job <105>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Job Group </risk_group>, Command <myjob> 
  
Wed May 14 15:24:07 2009: Submitted from host <hostA>, to Queue <normal>, CWD <$HOME/lsf51/5.1/sparc-sol7-
64/bin>;  
Wed May 14 15:24:10 2009: Parameters of Job are changed: 
                          Job group changes to: /risk_group/portfolio2/monthly;  
Wed May 14 15:24:17 2009: Dispatched to <hostA>;  
Wed May 14 15:24:172009: Starting (Pid 8602);  
...
Terminating jobs (bkill)
Procedure
1. Use the -g option of bkill and specify a job group path to terminate jobs in a job group.
bkill -g /risk_group 106 
Job <106> is being terminated
2. Use job ID 0 (zero) to terminate all jobs in a job group:
IBM Spectrum LSF 535

bkill -g /risk_group 0 
Job <1413> is being terminated  
Job <1414> is being terminated  
Job <1415> is being terminated  
Job <1416> is being terminated
bkill only kills jobs in the job group you specify. It does not kill jobs in lower-level job groups in the path. For example, jobs are attached to job
groups /risk_group and /risk_group/consolidate:
bsub -g /risk_group  myjob 
Job <115> is submitted to default queue <normal>. 
bsub -g /risk_group/consolidate myjob2 
Job <116> is submitted to default queue <normal>.
The following bkill command only kills jobs in /risk_group, not the subgroup /risk_group/consolidate:
bkill -g /risk_group 0 
Job <115> is being terminated
To kill jobs in /risk_group/consolidate, specify the path to the consolidate job group explicitly:
bkill -g /risk_group/consolidate 0 
Job <116> is being terminated
Deleting a job group manually (bgdel)
Procedure
1. Use the bgdel command to manually remove a job group. The job group cannot contain any jobs.
bgdel /risk_group 
Job group /risk_group is deleted.
Deletes the job group /risk_group and all its subgroups.
Normal users can only delete the empty groups that they own that are speciﬁed by the requested job_group_name. These groups can be
explicit or implicit.
2. Run bgdel 0 to delete all empty job groups you own. Theses groups can be explicit or implicit.
3. LSF administrators can use bgdel -u user_name 0 to delete all empty job groups that are created by speciﬁc users. These groups can be
explicit or implicit.
Run bgdel -u all 0 to delete all the users' empty job groups and their sub groups. LSF administrators can delete empty job groups that are
created by any user. These groups can be explicit or implicit.
4. Run bgdel -c job_group_name to delete all empty groups below the requested job_group_name including job_group_name itself.
Modifying a job group limit (bgmod)
Procedure
Run bgmod to change a job group limit.
bgmod [-L limit | -Ln] /job_group_name
where:
-L limit changes the limit of job_group_name to the speciﬁed value. If the job group has parent job groups, the new limit cannot exceed the
limits of any higher level job groups. Similarly, if the job group has child job groups, the new value must be greater than any limits on the lower-
level job groups.
-Ln removes the existing job limit for the job group. If the job group has parent job groups, the job modiﬁed group automatically inherits any
limits from its direct parent job group.
You must provide full group path name for the modiﬁed job group. The last component of the path is the name of the job group to be modiﬁed.
Only root, LSF administrators, or the job group creator, or the creator of the parent job groups can use bgmod to modify a job group limit.
The following command only modiﬁes the limit of group /canada/projects/test1. It does not modify limits of /canada or/canada/projects.
bgmod -L 6 /canada/projects/test1
To modify limits of /canada or/canada/projects, you must specify the exact group name:
536    IBM Spectrum LSF

bgmod -L 6 /canada
or
bgmod -L 6 /canada/projects
Automatic job group cleanup
When an implicitly created job group becomes empty, it can be automatically deleted by LSF.
Job groups that can be automatically deleted cannot:
Have limits that are speciﬁed including their child groups
Have explicitly created child job groups
Be attached to any SLA
Conﬁgure JOB_GROUP_CLEAN=Y in lsb.params to enable automatic job group deletion.
For example, for the following job groups:
When automatic job group deletion is enabled, LSF only deletes job groups /X/Y/Z/W and /X/Y/Z. Job group /X/Y is not deleted because it is an
explicitly created job group, Job group /X is also not deleted because it has an explicitly created child job group /X/Y.
Automatic job group deletion does not delete job groups that are attached to SLA service classes. Use bgdel to manually delete job groups that are
attached to SLAs.
Host groups
Host groups gather similar resources to the same group of hosts (for example, all hosts with big memory)- Use host groups to manage dedicated
resources for a single organization or to share resources across organizations. You can add limits to host groups, or deﬁne host groups in queues to
constrain jobs for a scheduling policy that is deﬁned over a speciﬁc set of hosts.
You can deﬁne a host group within LSF or use an external executable to retrieve host group members.
Use bhosts to view a list of existing hosts. Use bmgroup to view host group membership.
Where to use host groups
LSF host groups can be used in deﬁning the following parameters in LSF conﬁguration ﬁles:
HOSTS in lsb.queues for authorized hosts for the queue
HOSTS in lsb.hosts in the HostPartition section to list host groups that are members of the host partition
Conﬁguring host groups
 Wildcard and special characters to deﬁne host names
 You can use special characters when deﬁning host group members under the GROUP_MEMBER column to specify hosts. These are useful to
deﬁne several hosts in a single entry, such as for a range of hosts, or for all host names with a certain text string.
Deﬁne condensed host groups
 You can deﬁne condensed host groups to display information for its hosts as a summary for the entire group. This is useful because it allows
you to see the total statistics of the host group as a whole instead of having to add up the data yourself. This allows you to better plan the
distribution of jobs submitted to the hosts and host groups in your cluster.
Conﬁguring host groups
IBM Spectrum LSF 537

Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator to any host in the cluster.
2. Open lsb.hosts.
3. Add the HostGroup section if it does not exist.
Begin HostGroup 
GROUP_NAME        GROUP_MEMBER 
groupA            (all) 
groupB            (groupA ~hostA ~hostB) 
groupC            (hostX hostY hostZ) 
groupD            (groupC ~hostX) 
groupE            (all ~groupC ~hostB) 
groupF            (hostF groupC hostK) 
desk_tops         (hostD hostE hostF hostG) 
Big_servers       (!) 
End HostGroup
4. Enter a group name under the GROUP_NAME column.
External host groups must be deﬁned in the egroup executable.
5. Specify hosts in the GROUP_MEMBER column.
(Optional) To tell LSF that the group members should be retrieved using egroup, put an exclamation mark (!) in the GROUP_MEMBER column.
6. Save your changes.
7. Run badmin ckconﬁg to check the group deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
8. Run badmin mbdrestart to apply the new conﬁguration.
Wildcard and special characters to deﬁne host names
You can use special characters when deﬁning host group members under the GROUP_MEMBER column to specify hosts. These are useful to deﬁne
several hosts in a single entry, such as for a range of hosts, or for all host names with a certain text string.
If a host matches more than one host group, that host is a member of all groups. If any host group is a condensed host group, the status and other
details of the hosts are counted towards all of the matching host groups.
When deﬁning host group members, you can use string literals and the following special characters:
Tilde (~) excludes speciﬁed hosts or host groups from the list. The tilde can be used in conjunction with the other special characters listed
below. The following example matches all hosts in the cluster except for hostA, hostB, and all members of the groupA host group:
... (all ~hostA ~hostB ~groupA)
Asterisk (*) represent any number of characters. The following example matches all hosts beginning with the text string “hostC” (such as
hostCa, hostC1, or hostCZ1):
... (hostC*)
Square brackets with a hyphen ([integer1 - integer2]) or a colon ([integer1 : integer2]) deﬁne a range of non-negative integers at the end of a
host name. The ﬁrst integer must be less than the second integer. The following examples match all hosts from hostD51 to hostD100:
... (hostD[51-100]) 
... (hostD[51:100])
Square brackets with commas ([integer1, integer2 ...]) deﬁne individual non-negative integers at the end of a host name. The following
example matches hostD101, hostD123, and hostD321:
... (hostD[101,123,321])
Square brackets with commas and hyphens or colons (such as [integer1 - integer2, integer3, integer4 : integer5]) deﬁne different ranges of
non-negative integers at the end of a host name. The following example matches all hosts from hostD1 to hostD100, hostD102, all hosts
from hostD201 to hostD300, and hostD320):
... (hostD[1-100,102,201:300,320])
Restrictions
You cannot use more than one set of square brackets in a single host group deﬁnition.
The following example is not correct:
... (hostA[1-10]B[1-20] hostC[101-120])
The following example is correct:
538    IBM Spectrum LSF

... (hostA[1-20] hostC[101-120])
You cannot deﬁne subgroups that contain wildcard and special characters. The following deﬁnition for groupB is not correct because groupA
deﬁnes hosts with a wildcard:
Begin HostGroup 
GROUP_NAME   GROUP_MEMBER 
groupA       (hostA*) 
groupB       (groupA) 
End HostGroup
Deﬁne condensed host groups
You can deﬁne condensed host groups to display information for its hosts as a summary for the entire group. This is useful because it allows you to
see the total statistics of the host group as a whole instead of having to add up the data yourself. This allows you to better plan the distribution of
jobs submitted to the hosts and host groups in your cluster.
To deﬁne condensed host groups, add a CONDENSE column to the HostGroup section. Under this column, enter Y to deﬁne a condensed host group
or N to deﬁne an noncondensed host group, as shown in the following:
Begin HostGroup 
GROUP_NAME   CONDENSE   GROUP_MEMBER 
groupA          Y       (hostA hostB hostD) 
groupB          N       (hostC hostE) 
End HostGroup
The following commands display condensed host group information:
bhosts
bhosts -w
bjobs
bjobs -w
Use bmgroup -l to see whether host groups are condensed or not.
Hosts belonging to multiple condensed host groups
If you conﬁgure a host to belong to more than one condensed host group using wildcards, bjobs can display any of the host groups as execution
host name.
For example, host groups hg1 and hg2 include the same hosts:
Begin HostGroup 
GROUP_NAME      CONDENSE    GROUP_MEMBER        # Key words 
hg1               Y         (host*) 
hg2               Y         (hos*) 
End HostGroup
Submit jobs using bsub -m:
bsub -m "hg2" sleep 1001
bjobs displays hg1 as the execution host instead of hg2:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
520     user1   RUN   normal     host5       hg1        sleep 1001 Apr 15 13:50 
521     user1   RUN   normal     host5       hg1        sleep 1001 Apr 15 13:50 
522     user1   PEND  normal     host5                  sleep 1001 Apr 15 13:51
Import external host groups (egroup)
When the membership of a host group changes frequently, or when the group contains a large number of members, you can use an external
executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than having to conﬁgure the group membership manually. You can write a site-speciﬁc
egroup executable that retrieves host group names and the hosts that belong to each group. For information about how to use the external host and
user groups feature, see External host and user groups.
Specifying resource requirements
IBM Spectrum LSF 539

About resource requirements
Resource requirements deﬁne which hosts a job can run on. Each job has its resource requirements and hosts that match the resource
requirements are the candidate hosts. When LSF schedules a job, it uses the load index values of all the candidate hosts. The load values for
each host are compared to the scheduling conditions. Jobs are only dispatched to a host if all load values are within the scheduling
thresholds.
Queue-level resource requirements
Each queue can deﬁne resource requirements that apply to all the jobs in the queue.
Job-level resource requirements
Each job can specify resource requirements. Job-level resource requirements override any resource requirements speciﬁed in the remote task
list.
Resource requirement strings
Most LSF commands accept a -R res_req argument to specify resource requirements. A resource requirement string describes the
resources that a job needs. The exact behavior depends on the command. LSF uses resource requirements to select hosts for remote
execution and job execution. Resource requirement strings can be simple (applying to the entire job) or compound (applying to the speciﬁed
number of slots).
Specify GPU resource requirements for your jobs
Specify all GPU resource requirements as part of job submission, or in a queue or application proﬁle, or use the default GPU requirement
"num=1:mode=shared:mps=no:j_exclusive=no". Use the option bsub –gpu to submit jobs that require GPU resources. Specify how LSF
manages GPU mode (exclusive or shared), and whether to enable the NVIDIA Multi-Process Service (MPS) for the GPUs used by the job.
About resource requirements
Resource requirements deﬁne which hosts a job can run on. Each job has its resource requirements and hosts that match the resource requirements
are the candidate hosts. When LSF schedules a job, it uses the load index values of all the candidate hosts. The load values for each host are
compared to the scheduling conditions. Jobs are only dispatched to a host if all load values are within the scheduling thresholds.
By default, if a job has no resource requirements, LSF places it on a host of the same type as the submission host (that is, type==local). However, if a
job has string or Boolean resource requirements speciﬁed and the host type has not been speciﬁed, LSF places the job on any host (that is,
type==any) that satisﬁes the resource requirements.
To override the LSF defaults, specify resource requirements explicitly. Resource requirements can be set for queues, for application proﬁles, or for
individual jobs.
To best place a job with optimized performance, resource requirements can be speciﬁed for each application. This way, you do not have to specify
resource requirements every time you submit a job. The LSF administrator may have already conﬁgured the resource requirements for your jobs, or
you can put your executable name together with its resource requirements into your personal remote task list.
The bsub command automatically uses the resource requirements of the job from the remote task lists.
A resource requirement is an expression that contains resource names and operators.
Compound resource requirements
In some cases different resource requirements may apply to different parts of a parallel job. The ﬁrst execution host, for example, may require more
memory or a faster processor for optimal job scheduling. Compound resource requirements allow you to specify different requirements for some
slots within a job in the queue-level, application-level, or job-level resource requirement string.
Compound resource requirement strings can be set by the application-level or queue-level RES_REQ parameter, or used with bsub -R when a job is
submitted. bmod -R accepts compound resource requirement strings for pending jobs but not running jobs.
Special rules take effect when compound resource requirements are merged with resource requirements deﬁned at more than one level. If a
compound resource requirement is used at any level (job, application, or queue) the compound multi-level resource requirement combinations
described later in this chapter apply.
The same resource requirement can be used within each component expression (simple resource requirement). For example, suppose static strings
resource res1 and res2 are deﬁned. We permit a resource requirement such as:
"4*{select[io] same[res1]} + 4*{select[compute] same[res1]}"
With this resource requirement, there are two simple sub-expressions, R1 and R2. For each of these sub-expressions, all slots must come from hosts
with equal values of res1. However, R1 may occupy hosts of a different value than those occupied by R2.
You can specify a global same requirement that takes effect over multiple sub-expressions of a compound resource requirement string. For example,
"{4*{select[io]} + 4*{select[compute]}} same[res1]"
This syntax allows users to express that both sub-expressions must reside on hosts that have a common value for res1.
In general, there may be more than two sub-expressions in a compound resource requirement. The global same will apply to all of them.
540    IBM Spectrum LSF

Arbitrary nesting of brackets is not permitted. For example, you cannot have a global same apply to only two of three sub-expressions of a compound
resource requirement. However, each sub-expression can have its own local same as well as a global same for the compound expression as a whole.
For example, the following is permitted:
"{4*{same[res1]} + 4*{same[res1]}} same[res2]"
In addition, a compound resource requirement expression with a global same may be part of a larger alternative resource requirement string.
A compound resource requirement expression with a global same can be used in the following instances:
Submitting a job: bsub -R "rsrc_req_string" <other_bsub_options> a.out
Conﬁguring application proﬁle (lsb.applications): RES_REQ = "rsrc_req_string"
Queue conﬁguration (lsb.queues): RES_REQ = "rsrc_req_string"
Syntax:
A single compound resource requirement:
"{ compound_rsrc_req } same[ same_str ]"
A compound resource requirement within an alternative resource requirement:
"{{ compound_rsrc_req } same[ same_str ]} || {R}"
A compound resource requirement within an alternative resource requirement with delay:
"{R} || {{ compound_rsrc_req } same[ same_str ]}@D"
where D is a positive integer.
Restriction:
Compound resource requirements cannot contain the || operator. Compound resource requirements cannot be deﬁned (included) in any
multiple -R options.
Compound resource requirements cannot contain the compute unit (cu) keywords balance or excl, but works normally with other cu keywords
(including pref, type, maxcus, and usablecuslots).
Resizable jobs can have compound resource requirements, but only the portion of the job represented by the last term of the compound
resource requirement is eligible for automatic resizing. When using bresize release to release slots, you can only release slots represented by
the last term of the compound resource requirement. To release slots in earlier terms, run bresize release repeatedly to release slots in
subsequent last terms.
Compound resource requirements cannot be speciﬁed in the deﬁnition of a guaranteed resource pool.
Resource allocation for parallel jobs using compound resources is done for each compound resource term in the order listed instead of
considering all possible combinations. A host rejected for not satisfying one resource requirement term will not be reconsidered for
subsequent resource requirement terms.
Compound resource requirements were introduced in LSF Version 7 Update 5, and are not compatible with earlier versions of LSF.
Alternative resource requirements
In some circumstances more than one set of resource requirements may be acceptable for a job to be able to run. LSF provides the ability to specify
alternative resource requirements.
An alternative resource requirement consists of two or more individual simple or compound resource requirements. Each separate resource
requirement describes an alternative. When a job is submitted with alternative resource requirements, the alternative resource picked must satisfy
the mandatory ﬁrst execution host. If none of the alternatives can satisfy the mandatory ﬁrst execution host, the job will PEND.
Alternative resource requirement strings can be speciﬁed at the application-level or queue-level RES_REQ parameter, or used with bsub -R when a
job is submitted. bmod -R also accepts alternative resource requirement strings for pending jobs.
The rules for merging job, application, and queue alternative resource requirements are the same as for compound resource requirements.
Alternative resource requirements cannot be used with the following features:
Multiple bsub -R commands
TS jobs, including those with the tssub command
Hosts from HPC integrations that use toplib, including CPUset and Blue Gene.
Compute unit (cu) sections speciﬁed with balance or excl keywords.
If a job with alternative resource requirements speciﬁed is re-queued, it will have all alternative resource requirements considered during
scheduling. If a @D delay time is speciﬁed, it is interpreted as waiting, starting from the original submission time. For a restart job, @D delay time
starts from the restart job submission time.
Resource requirements in application proﬁles
See Resource requirements for information about how resource requirements in application proﬁles are resolved with queue-level and job-level
resource requirements.
IBM Spectrum LSF 541

Re-sizable jobs and resource requirements
In general, resize allocation requests for re-sizable jobs use the resource requirements of the running job. When the resource requirement string for
a job is modiﬁed with bmod -R, the new string takes effects for a job resize request. The resource requirement of the allocation request is merged
from resource requirements speciﬁed at the queue, job, and application levels.
Queue-level resource requirements
Each queue can deﬁne resource requirements that apply to all the jobs in the queue.
When resource requirements are speciﬁed for a queue, and no job-level or application proﬁle resource requirement is speciﬁed, the queue-level
resource requirements become the default resource requirements for the job.
Resource requirements determined by the queue no longer apply to a running job after running badmin reconﬁg, For example, if you change the
RES_REQ parameter in a queue and reconﬁgure the cluster, the previous queue-level resource requirements for running jobs are lost.
Syntax
The condition for dispatching a job to a host can be speciﬁed through the queue-level RES_REQ parameter in the queue deﬁnition in lsb.queues.
Queue-level RES_REQ rusage values must be in the range set by RESRSV_LIMIT (set in lsb.queues), or the queue-level RES_REQ is ignored.
Examples
RES_REQ=select[((type==LINUX2.4 && r1m < 2.0)||(type==AIX && r1m < 1.0))] 
This allows a queue, which contains LINUX2.4 and AIX hosts, to have different thresholds for different types of hosts.
RES_REQ=select[((hname==hostA && mem > 50)||(hname==hostB && mem > 100))] 
Using the hname resource in the resource requirement string allows you to set up different conditions for different hosts in the same queue.
Load thresholds
Load thresholds can be conﬁgured by your LSF administrator to schedule jobs in queues. Load thresholds specify a load index value.
loadSched
The scheduling threshold that determines the load condition for dispatching pending jobs. If a host’s load is beyond any deﬁned loadSched, a job is
not started on the host. This threshold is also used as the condition for resuming suspended jobs.
loadStop
The suspending condition that determines when running jobs should be suspended.
Thresholds can be conﬁgured for each queue, for each host, or a combination of both. To schedule a job on a host, the load levels on that host must
satisfy both the thresholds conﬁgured for that host and the thresholds for the queue from which the job is being dispatched.
The value of a load index may either increase or decrease with load, depending on the meaning of the speciﬁc load index. Therefore, when comparing
the host load conditions with the threshold values, you need to use either greater than (>) or less than (<), depending on the load index.
Job-level resource requirements
Each job can specify resource requirements. Job-level resource requirements override any resource requirements speciﬁed in the remote task list.
In some cases, the queue speciﬁcation sets an upper or lower bound on a resource. If you attempt to exceed that bound, your job will be rejected.
Syntax
To specify resource requirements for your job, use bsub -R and specify the resource requirement string as usual. You can specify multiple -R order,
same, rusage, and select sections.
Note:
Within esub, you can get resource requirements using the LSB_SUB_RES_REQ variable, which merges multiple –R from the bsub command. If you
want to modify the LSB_SUB_RES_REQ variable, you cannot use multiple –R format. Instead, use the && operator to merge them manually.
Merged RES_REQ rusage values from the job and application levels must be in the range of RESRSV_LIMIT (set in lsb.queues), or the job is rejected.
542    IBM Spectrum LSF

Examples
bsub -R "swp > 15 && hpux order[ut]" myjob 
or
bsub -R "select[swp > 15]" -R "select[hpux] order[ut]" myjob 
This runs myjob on an HP-UX host that is lightly loaded (CPU utilization) and has at least 15 MB of swap memory available.
bsub -R "select[swp > 15]" -R "select[hpux] order[r15m]"  -R "order[r15m]" -R rusage[mem=100]"  
-R "order[ut]" -R "same[type] -R "rusage[tmp=50:duration=60]" -R "same[model]" myjob
LSF merges the multiple -R options into one string and dispatches the job if all of the resource requirements can be met. By allowing multiple
resource requirement strings and automatically merging them into one string, LSF simpliﬁes the use of multiple layers of wrapper scripts.
Resource requirement strings
Most LSF commands accept a -R res_req argument to specify resource requirements. A resource requirement string describes the resources that
a job needs. The exact behavior depends on the command. LSF uses resource requirements to select hosts for remote execution and job execution.
Resource requirement strings can be simple (applying to the entire job) or compound (applying to the speciﬁed number of slots).
For example, specifying a resource requirement for the lsload command displays the load levels for all hosts that have the requested resources.
Specifying resource requirements for the lsrun command causes LSF to select the best host out of the set of hosts that have the requested
resources.
Selection string
 The selection string speciﬁes the characteristics that a host must have to match the resource requirement. It is a logical expression that is
built from a set of resource names. The selection string is evaluated for each host; if the result is non-zero, then that host is selected. When
used in conjunction with a cu string, hosts not belonging to compute unit are not considered.
Order string
 The order string allows the selected hosts to be sorted according to the values of resources. The values of r15s, r1m, and r15m used for
sorting are the normalized load indices that are returned by lsload -N.
Usage string
 This string deﬁnes the expected resource usage of the job. It is used to specify resource reservations for jobs, or for mapping jobs on to hosts
and adjusting the load when running interactive jobs.
Span string
 A span string speciﬁes the locality of a parallel job. If span is omitted, LSF allocates the required processors for the job from the available set
of processors.
Same string
 Compute unit string
A cu string speciﬁes the network architecture-based requirements of parallel jobs. cu sections are accepted by bsub -R, and by bmod -R for
non-running jobs.
Afﬁnity string
 An afﬁnity resource requirement string speciﬁes CPU and memory binding requirements for the tasks of jobs. An afﬁnity[] resource
requirement section controls CPU and memory resource allocations and speciﬁes the distribution of processor units within a host according to
the hardware topology information that LSF collects.
Resource requirement string sections
The section names for resource requirement strings are select, order, rusage, span, same, cu, and afﬁnity. Sections that do not apply for a command
are ignored.
A selection section (select). The selection section speciﬁes the criteria for selecting hosts from the system.
An ordering section (order). The ordering section indicates how the hosts that meet the selection criteria is sorted.
A resource usage section (rusage). The resource usage section speciﬁes the expected resource consumption of the task.
A job spanning section (span). The job spanning section indicates whether a parallel batch job can span across multiple hosts.
A same resource section (same). The same section indicates that all processes of a parallel job must run on the same type of host.
A compute unit resource section (cu). The cu section speciﬁes how a job is placed compared to the underlying network architecture.
An afﬁnity resource section (afﬁnity). The afﬁnity section speciﬁes how a job is be placed compared to CPU and memory afﬁnity on NUMA
hosts.
Which sections apply
Depending on the command, one or more of the resource requirement string sections might apply.
The bsub command uses all sections.
The brsvadd command uses the information in the select and same sections to select an appropriate host for an advance reservation.
The lshosts command selects hosts, but does not order them.
The lsload command selects and orders hosts.
IBM Spectrum LSF 543

The lsloadadj command uses the rusage section to determine how the load information is adjusted on a host.
The lsplace command uses the information in the select, order, and rusage sections to select an appropriate host for a task.
Simple syntax
select[selection_string] order[order_string] rusage[usage_string [, usage_string] 
[|| usage_string] ...] span[span_string] same[same_string] cu[cu_string] affinity[affinity_string] 
With the bsub and bmod commands, and only with these commands, you can specify multiple -R order, same, rusage, and select sections. The
bmod command does not support the use of the || operator.
The section names are select, order, rusage, span, same, cu, and afﬁnity. Sections that do not apply for a command are ignored.
The square brackets must be typed as shown for each section. A blank space must separate each resource requirement section.
You can omit the select[] section, but if you include it, the selection section must be the ﬁrst string in the resource requirement string. If you do not
use a section keyword (select, order, rusage, span, same, cu, and afﬁnity), the ﬁrst resource requirement string is treated as a selection string
(select[selection_string]).
Each section has a different syntax.
By default, memory (mem) and swap (swp) limits in select[] and rusage[] sections are speciﬁed in MB. Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in
the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify a larger unit for these limits.
For the bsub, bmod, and brestart commands, you can use the following units for resource requirements and limits:
KB or K (kilobytes)
MB or M (megabytes)
GB or G (gigabytes)
TB or T (terabytes)
PB or P (petabytes)
EB or E (exabytes)
ZB or Z (zettabytes)
The speciﬁed unit is converted to the appropriate value speciﬁed by the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter. The converted limit values round up to a
positive integer. For resource requirements, you can specify unit for mem, swp, and tmp in the select and rusage sections.
By default, the tmp resource is not supported by the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter. Use the parameter LSF_ENABLE_TMP_UNIT=Y to enable the
LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter to support limits on the tmp resource.
If the LSF_ENABLE_TMP_UNIT=Y and LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMIT=GB parameters are set, the following conversion happens.
bsub -C 500MB -M 1G -S 1TB -F 1GB -R "rusage[mem=512MB:swp=1GB:tmp=1TB]" sleep 100 
The units in this job submission are converted to the following units:
 bsub -C 1 -M 1 -S 1024 -F 1 -R "rusage[mem=0.5:swp=1:tmp=1024]" sleep 100 
Compound syntax
num1*{simple_string1} + num2*{simple_string2} + ... 
where numx is the number of slots that are affected and simple_stringx is a simple resource requirement string with the syntax:
select[selection_string] order[order_string] rusage[usage_string [, usage_string]...] span[span_string] 
Resource requirements that apply to the ﬁrst execution host (if used) appear in the ﬁrst compound term num1*{simple_string1}.
Place speciﬁc (harder to ﬁll) requirements before general (easier to ﬁll) requirements since compound resource requirement terms are considered in
the order they appear. Resource allocation for parallel jobs that use compound resources is done for each compound resource term independently
instead of considering all possible combinations.
Note: A host that is rejected for not satisfying one resource requirement term is not reconsidered for subsequent resource requirement terms.
For jobs without the number of total slots that are speciﬁed by using the bsub -n option, you can omit the ﬁnal numx. The ﬁnal resource requirement
is then applied to the zero or more slots that are not yet accounted for using the default slot setting of the parameter TASKLIMIT as follows:
(ﬁnal res_req number of slots) = MAX(0,(default number of job slots from TASKLIMIT)-(num1+num2+...))
For jobs with the total number of slots that are speciﬁed with the bsub -n num_slots option, the total number of slots must match the number of
slots in the resource requirement:
num_slots=(num1+num2+num3+...)
You can omit the ﬁnal numx.
For jobs with compound resource requirements and ﬁrst execution host candidates that are speciﬁed by using the bsub -m option, the host that is
allocated ﬁrst must satisfy the simple resource requirement string that appears ﬁrst in the compound resource requirement. The ﬁrst execution host
must satisfy the requirements in simple_string1 for the following compound resource requirement:
544    IBM Spectrum LSF

num1*{simple_string1} +  
num2*{simple_string2} +  
num3*{simple_string3}
Compound resource requirements do not support use of the || operator within the component rusage simple resource requirements, or use of the cu
section.
How simple multi-level resource requirements are resolved
Simple resource requirements can be speciﬁed at the job, application, and queue levels.
When none of the resource requirements are compound, requirements that are deﬁned at different levels are resolved in the following ways:
In a select string, a host must satisfy all queue-level, application-level, and job-level requirements for the job to be dispatched.
In a same string, all queue-level, application-level, and job-level requirements are combined before the job is dispatched.
The order, span, and cu sections that are deﬁned at the job level overwrite the sections that are deﬁned at the application level or queue level.
The order, span, and cu sections that are deﬁned at the application level overwrite the sections that are deﬁned at the queue level. The default
order string is r15s:pg.
For usage strings, the rusage section that is deﬁned for the job overrides the rusage section that is deﬁned in the application. The two rusage
deﬁnitions are merged. The job-level rusage takes precedence. Similarly, rusage strings that are deﬁned for the job or application are merged
with queue-level strings, with the job and then application deﬁnitions taking precedence over the queue if there is any overlap.
Section Simple resource requirement multilevel behavior
select All levels are satisﬁed
same All levels are combined
order
span
cuJob-level section overwrites application-level section, which overwrites queue-level section (if a level is present)
rusage All levels merge
If conflicts occur the job-level section overwrites the application-level section, which overwrites the queue-level section.
For internal load indices and duration, jobs are rejected if the merged job-level and application-level resource reservation requirements exceed the
requirements that are speciﬁed at the queue level.
Note: If a compound resource requirement is used at one or more levels (job, application, or queue) the compound rules apply.
How compound and multi-level resource requirements are resolved
Compound resource requirements can be speciﬁed at the job, application, and queue levels. When one or more of the resource requirements is
compound or alternative, requirements at different levels are resolved depending on where the compound resource requirement appears.
During the ﬁrst stage, LSF decides between the job and application level resource requirement:
1. If a resource requirement is not deﬁned at the job level, LSF takes the application level resource requirement, if any.
2. If any level deﬁnes an alternative resource requirement, the job level overrides the application level resource requirement as a whole. There is
no merge.
3. If both levels have simple resource requirements, the job level merges with the application level resource requirement.
During the second stage, LSF decides between the job/application merged result and the queue level resource requirement:
1. If the merged result does not deﬁne any resource requirement, LSF takes the queue-level resource requirement.
2. If the merged result or queue-level is an alternative resource requirement, LSF takes the merged result.
3. If the queue-level is a simple resource requirement and the merged result is a simple resource requirement, LSF merges the merged result
with the queue-level resource requirement.
4. If the queue-level resource requirement is simple and the merged result is an alternative resource requirement, each sub expression in the
alternative resource requirement merges with the queue-level resource requirement, following these rules:
a. The select[] clause must be satisﬁed for all of them.
b. The merged order[] clause overrides the queue-level clause.
c. The merged rusage[] clause merges with the queue-level rusage. If the queue-level rusage deﬁnes a job-level resource, this rusage
subterm is merged only into the left most atomic resource requirement term.
d. The merged span[] clause overrides the queue-level span[] clause.
e. Queue-level same[] and cu[] clauses are ignored.
For internal load indices and duration, jobs are rejected if they specify resource reservation requirements that exceed the requirements that are
speciﬁed at the application level or queue level.
Note: If a compound resource requirement is used at one or more levels (job, application, or queue) the compound rules apply.
Compound queue level
IBM Spectrum LSF 545

When a compound resource requirement is set for a queue, it is ignored unless it is the only resource requirement speciﬁed (no resource
requirements are set at the job level or application level).
Compound application level
When a compound resource requirement is set at the application level, it is ignored if any job-level resource requirements (simple or compound) are
deﬁned.
If no job-level resource requirements are set, the compound application-level requirements interact with queue-level resource requirement strings
in the following ways:
If no queue-level resource requirement is deﬁned or a compound queue-level resource requirement is deﬁned, the compound application-
level requirement is used.
If a simple queue-level requirement is deﬁned, the application-level and queue-level requirements combine as follows:
Section Compound application and simple queue behavior
select Both levels are satisﬁed. Queue requirement applies to all compound terms.
same Queue level is ignored.
order and span Application-level section overwrites queue-level section (if a level is present). Queue requirement (if used) applies to all
compound terms.
rusage Both levels merge.
Queue requirement if a job-based resource is applied to the ﬁrst compound term, otherwise applies to all
compound terms.
If conflicts occur, the application-level section overwrites the queue-level section.
For example, if the application-level requirement is num1*{rusage[R1]} + num2*{rusage[R2]} and the queue-level
requirement is rusage[RQ] where RQ is a job-based resource, the merged requirement is num1*
{rusage[merge(R1,RQ)]} + num2*{rusage[R2]}
Compound job level
When a compound resource requirement is set at the job level, any simple or compound application-level resource requirements are ignored, and
any compound queue-level resource requirements are ignored.
If a simple queue-level requirement appears with a compound job-level requirement, the requirements interact as follows:
Section Compound job and simple queue behavior
select Both levels are satisﬁed; queue requirement applies to all compound terms.
same Queue level section is ignored.
order and span Job-level section overwrites queue-level section (if a level is present). Queue requirement (if used) applies to all compound
terms.
rusage Both levels merge.
Queue requirement if a job-based resource is applied to the ﬁrst compound term, otherwise applies to all compound
terms.
If conflicts occur, the job-level section overwrites the queue-level section.
For example, if the job-level requirement is num1*{rusage[R1]} + num2*{rusage[R2]} and the queue-level requirement is
rusage[RQ] where RQ is a job resource, the merged requirement is num1*{rusage[merge(R1,RQ)]} + num2*
{rusage[R2]}
Example 1
A compound job requirement and simple queue requirement are speciﬁed.
Job level
2*{select[type==X86_64] rusage[licA=1] span[hosts=1]} + 8*{select[type==any]}
Application level
Not deﬁned.
Queue level
rusage[perslot=1]
The ﬁnal job scheduling resource requirement merges the simple queue-level rusage section into each term of the compound job-level requirement,
resulting in the following resource requirement: 2*{select[type==X86_64] rusage[licA=1:perslot=1] span[hosts=1]} + 8*
{select[type==any] rusage[perslot=1]}
Example 2
A compound job requirement and compound queue requirement are speciﬁed.
Job level
2*{select[type==X86_64 && tmp>10000] rusage[mem=1000] span[hosts=1]} + 8*{select[type==X86_64]}
Application level
Not deﬁned.
546    IBM Spectrum LSF

Queue level
2*{select[type==X86_64] rusage[mem=1000] span[hosts=1]} +8*{select[type==X86_64]}
The ﬁnal job scheduling resource requirement ignores the compound queue-level requirement, resulting in the following resource requirement: 2*
{select[type==X86_64 && tmp>10000] rusage[mem=1000] span[hosts=1]} + 8*{select[type==X86_64]}
Example 3
A compound job requirement and simple queue requirement where the queue requirement is a job-based resource.
Job level
2*{select[type==X86_64]} + 2*{select[mem>1000]}
Application level
Not deﬁned.
Queue level
rusage[licA=1]. The resource licA=1 is job-based.
The queue-level requirement is added to the ﬁrst term of the compound job-level requirement, resulting in the following resource requirement: 2*
{select[type==X86_64] rusage[licA=1]} + 2*{select[mem>1000]}
Example 4
Compound multi-phase job requirements and simple multi-phase queue requirements.
Job level
2*{rusage[mem=(400 350):duration=(10 15):decay=(0 1)]} + 2*{rusage[mem=300:duration=10:decay=1]}
Application level
Not deﬁned.
Queue level
rusage[mem=(500 300):duration=(20 10):decay=(0 1)]
The queue-level requirement is overridden by the ﬁrst term of the compound job-level requirement, resulting in the following resource requirement:
2*{rusage[mem=(400 350):duration=(10 15):decay=(0 1)]} + 2*{rusage[mem=300:duration=10:decay=1]}
How alternative resource requirements are resolved
Alternative resource requirements are resolved in two stages. During the ﬁrst stage, LSF decides between the job and application level resource
requirement. During the second stage, LSF decides between the job/application merged result and the queue level resource requirement.
LSF makes the following decisions in the ﬁrst stage:
1. If a resource requirement is not deﬁned at the job level, LSF takes the application-level resource requirement, if any.
2. If any level deﬁnes an alternative resource requirement, the job-level overrides the application level resource requirement as a whole. There is
no merge.
3. If both levels have simple resource requirements, the job level merges with the application level resource requirement.
LSF makes the following decisions in the second stage:
1. If the merged result does not deﬁne any resource requirement, LSF takes the queue-level resource requirement.
2. If the merged result and queue-level resource requirement is an alternative resource requirement, LSF takes the merged result.
3. If the queue-level is a simple resource requirement and the merged result is a simple resource requirement, LSF merges the merged result
with the queue-level resource requirement.
4. If the queue-level resource requirement is simple and the merged result is an alternative resource requirement, each sub expression in the
alternative resource requirement merges with the queue-level resource requirement, following these rules:
a. The select[] clause must be satisﬁed for all of them.
b. The merged order[] clause overrides the queue-level clause.
c. The merged rusage[] clause is merged with the queue-level rusage. When the subterm of the alternative resource requirement is a
compound resource requirement, and the queue-level deﬁnes a job-level resource, this rusage section is merged only into the left-most
atomic resource requirement term of this subterm. Otherwise, it is merged into all the terms for this subterm.
d. The merged span[] clause overrides the queue-level span[] clause.
e. The queue-level same[] and cu[] clauses are ignored.
After the job is submitted, the pending reason that is given applies only to the ﬁrst alternative even though LSF is trying the other applicable
alternatives.
Combined resource requirements
The combined resource requirement is the result of the mbatchd daemon merging job, application, and queue level resource requirements for a job.
Effective resource requirements
The effective resource requirement always represents the job's allocation. The effective resource requirement string for scheduled jobs represents
the resource requirement that is used by the scheduler to make a dispatch decision. When a job is dispatched, the mbschd daemon generates the
effective resource requirement for the job from the combined resource requirement according to the job's real allocation.
IBM Spectrum LSF 547

After the job starts, you can use the bmod -R command to modify the job's effective resource requirement along with the job allocation. The rusage
section of the effective resource is updated with the rusage in the newly combined resource requirement. The other sections in the resource
requirement string such as select, order, and span are kept the same during job run time because they are still used for the job by the scheduler.
For started jobs, you can modify only simple effective resource requirements with another simple requirement. Any request to change effective
resource requirements to compound or alternative resource requirements are rejected. Attempting to modify the resource requirement of a running
job to use rusage with or (||) branches are also rejected.
By default, LSF does not modify effective resource requirements and job resource usage when it runs the bswitch command. However, you can set
the BSWITCH_MODIFY_RUSAGE parameter to Y to make the bswitch command update job resource usage according to the resource requirements
in the new queue.
When a job ﬁnishes, the effective resource requirement last used by the job is saved in the JOB_FINISH event record of the lsb.acct ﬁle and the
JOB_FINISH2 record of the lsb.stream ﬁle. The bjobs -l command always displays the effective resource requirement that is used by the job in the
resource requirement details.
Selection string
The selection string speciﬁes the characteristics that a host must have to match the resource requirement. It is a logical expression that is built from
a set of resource names. The selection string is evaluated for each host; if the result is non-zero, then that host is selected. When used in conjunction
with a cu string, hosts not belonging to compute unit are not considered.
Syntax
The selection string can combine resource names with logical and arithmetic operators. Non-zero arithmetic values are treated as logical TRUE, and
zero as logical FALSE. Boolean resources (for example, server to denote LSF server hosts) have a value of one if they are deﬁned for a host, and zero
if they are not deﬁned for the host.
The resource names swap, idle, login, and cpu are accepted as aliases for swp, it, ls, and r1m respectively.
The ut index measures CPU utilization, which is the percentage of time spent running system and user code. A host with no processes running has a
ut value of 0 percent; a host on which the CPU is completely loaded has a ut of 100 percent. You must specify ut as a floating-point number between
0.0 and 1.0.
For the string resources type and model, the special value any selects any value and local selects the same value as that of the local host. For
example, type==local selects hosts of the same type as the host submitting the job. If a job can run on any type of host, include type==any in the
resource requirements.
If no type is speciﬁed, the default depends on the command. For bhosts, bsub, lsplace, lsrun, and lsgrun the default is type==local unless a
string or Boolean resource is speciﬁed, in which case it is type==any. For lshosts and lsload, the default is type==any.
Tip: When PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the resource requirement string keyword ncpus refers to the number of slots instead of the
number of CPUs, however lshosts output will continue to show ncpus as deﬁned by EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf.
You can also ﬁlter hosts by using slots or maxslots in the select string of resource requirements. For example:
select[slots>4 && maxslots < 10 || mem > 10] order[-slots:maxslots:maxmem:ut]
Specify multiple -R options
bsub accepts multiple -R options for the select section in simple resource requirements.
Restriction: Compound resource requirements do not support multiple -R options.
You can specify multiple resource requirement strings instead of using the && operator. For example:
bsub -R "select[swp > 15]" -R "select[hpux]"
LSF merges the multiple -R options into one string and dispatches the job if all of the resource requirements can be met. By allowing multiple
resource requirement strings and automatically merging them into one string, LSF simpliﬁes the use of multiple layers of wrapper scripts.
You cannot specify more than one select section in the same -R option. Use the logical and (&&) operator to specify multiple selection strings in the
same select section. For example, the following command submits a job called myjob to run on a host that has more than 15 MB of swap space
available, and maximum RAM larger than 100 MB. The job is expected to reserve 100 MB memory on the host:
% bsub -R "select [swp > 15 &&  maxmem > 100]  rusage[mem = 100] " myjob
The number of -R option sections is unlimited.
Select shared string resources
548    IBM Spectrum LSF

You must use single quote characters (') around string-type shared resources. For example, use lsload -s to see the shared resources that are
deﬁned for the cluster:
lsload -s 
RESOURCE                                VALUE       LOCATION 
os_version                                4.2       pc36 
os_version                                4.0       pc34 
os_version                                4.1       devlinux4 
cpu_type                                   ia       pc36 
cpu_type                                   ia       pc34 
cpu_type                              unknown       devlinux4
Use a select string in lsload -R to specify the shared resources you want to view, enclosing the shared resource values in single quotes. For example:
lsload -R "select[os_version=='4.2' || cpu_type=='unknown']"  
HOST_NAME       status  r15s   r1m  r15m   ut    pg  ls    it   tmp   swp   mem 
pc36                ok   0.0   0.2   0.1   1%   3.4   3     0  895M  517M  123M 
devlinux4           ok   0.0   0.1   0.0   0%   2.8   4     0 6348M  504M  205M
Note: When reserving resources based on host status (bsub -R "status==ok"), the host status must be the one displayed by running bhosts not
lsload.
Operators
These operators can be used in selection strings. The operators are listed in order of decreasing precedence.
Syntax Meaning
(a) When LSF_STRICT_RESREQ=Y is conﬁgured in lsf.conf, an expression between parentheses has higher priority than other
operators.
-a
!aNegative of a
Logical not: 1 if a==0, 0 otherwise
a * b
a / bMultiply a and b
Divide a by b
a + b
a - bAdd a and b
Subtract b from a
a > b
a < b
a >= b
a <= b1 if a is greater than b, 0 otherwise
1 if a is less than b, 0 otherwise
1 if a is greater than or equal to b, 0 otherwise
1 if a is less than or equal to b, 0 otherwise
a == b
a != b1 if a is equal to b, 0 otherwise
1 if a is not equal to b, 0 otherwise
a && b Logical AND: 1 if both a and b are non-zero, 0 otherwise
a || b Logical OR: 1 if either a or b is non-zero, 0 otherwise
Examples
select[(swp > 50 && type == x86_64) || (swp > 35 && type == LINUX)] 
select[((2*r15s + 3*r1m + r15m) / 6 < 1.0) && !fs && (cpuf > 4.0)]
Specify shared resources with the keyword “deﬁned”
A shared resource may be used in the resource requirement string of any LSF command. For example, when submitting an LSF job that requires a
certain amount of shared scratch space, you might submit the job as follows:
bsub -R "avail_scratch > 200 && swap > 50" myjob
The above assumes that all hosts in the cluster have access to the shared scratch space. The job is only scheduled if the value of the
"avail_scratch" resource is more than 200 MB and goes to a host with at least 50 MB of available swap space.
It is possible for a system to be conﬁgured so that only some hosts within the LSF cluster have access to the scratch space. To exclude hosts that
cannot access a shared resource, the deﬁned(resource_name) function must be speciﬁed in the resource requirement string.
For example:
bsub -R "defined(avail_scratch) && avail_scratch > 100 && swap > 100" myjob
would exclude any hosts that cannot access the scratch resource. The LSF administrator conﬁgures which hosts do and do not have access to a
particular shared resource.
Supported resource names in the deﬁned function
IBM Spectrum LSF 549

Only resource names conﬁgured in lsf.shared, except dynamic NUMERIC resource names with INTERVAL ﬁelds deﬁned are accepted as the argument
in the deﬁned (resource_name) function.
The following resource names are not accepted in the deﬁned (resource_name) function:
The following built-in resource names:
r15s r1m r15m ut pg io ls it tmp swp mem ncpus ndisks maxmem 
maxswp maxtmp cpuf type model status rexpri server and hname
Dynamic NUMERIC resource names conﬁgured in lsf.shared with INTERVAL ﬁelds deﬁned. In the default conﬁguration, these are mode, cntrl,
it_t.)
Other non-built-in resource names not conﬁgured in lsf.shared.
Specify exclusive resources
An exclusive resource may be used in the resource requirement string of any placement or scheduling command, such as bsub, lsplace, lsrun, or
lsgrun. An exclusive resource is a special resource that is assignable to a host. This host will not receive a job unless that job explicitly requests the
host. For example, use the following command to submit a job requiring the exclusive resource bigmem:
bsub -R "bigmem" myjob
Jobs will not be dispatched to the host with the bigmem resource unless the command uses the -R option to explicitly specify "bigmem".
To conﬁgure an exclusive resource, ﬁrst deﬁne a static Boolean resource in lsf.shared. For example:
Begin Resource 
... 
bigmem Boolean () () 
End Resource
Assign the resource to a host in the Host section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name for static hosts or LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES for dynamic hosts. Preﬁx the
resource name with an exclamation mark (!) to indicate that the resource is exclusive to the host. For example:
Begin Host 
HOSTNAME   model  type  server r1m pg tmp RESOURCES       RUNWINDOW 
... 
hostE      !      !     1      3.5 () ()  (linux !bigmem) () 
... 
End Host 
  
LSF_LOCAL_RESOURCES="[resource linux] [!bigmem]"
Strict syntax for resource requirement selection strings
When LSF_STRICT_RESREQ=Y is conﬁgured in lsf.conf, resource requirement strings in select sections must conform to a more strict syntax. The
strict resource requirement syntax only applies to the select section. It does not apply to the other resource requirement sections (order, rusage,
same, span, or cu). When LSF_STRICT_RESREQ=Y in lsf.conf, LSF rejects resource requirement strings where an rusage section contains a non-
consumable resource.
Strict select string syntax usage notes
The strict syntax is case-sensitive.
Boolean variables, such as fs, hpux, cs, can only be computed with the following operators
&& || !
String variables, such as type, can only be computed with the following operators:
= == != < > <= >=
For function calls, blanks between the parentheses "( )" and the resource name are not valid. For example, the following is not correct:
defined(   mg   )
Multiple logical NOT operators (!) are not valid. For example, the following is not correct:
!!mg
The following resource requirement is valid:
!(!mg)
At least one blank space must separate each section. For example, the following are correct:
type==any rusage[mem=1024] 
select[type==any] rusage[mem=1024] 
select[type==any]rusage[mem=1024]
550    IBM Spectrum LSF

but the following is not correct:
type==anyrusage[mem=1024]
Only a single select section is supported by the stricter syntax. The following is not supported in the same resource requirement string:
select[mem>0] select[maxmem>0]
Escape characters (like '\n') are not supported in string literals.
A colon (:) is not allowed inside the select string. For example, select[mg:bigmem] is not correct.
inf and nan can be used as resource names or part of a resource name.
Single or double quotes are only supported around the whole resource requirement string, not within the square brackets containing the selection
string. For example, in lsb.queues, RES_REQ='swp>100' and RES_REQ="swp>100" are correct. Neither RES_REQ=select['swp>100'] nor
RES_REQ=select["swp>100"] are supported.
The following are correct bsub command-level resource requirements:
bsub -R "'swp>100'"
bsub -R '"swp>100"'
The following are not correct:
bsub -R "select['swp>100']"
bsub -R 'select["swp>100"]'
Some incorrect resource requirements are no longer silently ignored. For example, when LSF_STRICT_RESREQ=Y is conﬁgured in lsf.conf, the
following are rejected by the resource requirement parser:
microcs73 is rejected:
linux rusage[mem=16000] microcs73
select[AMD64] is rejected:
mem < 16384 && select[AMD64]
linux is rejected:
rusage[mem=2000] linux
Using a colon (:) to separate select conditions, such as linux:qscw.
The restricted syntax of resource requirement select strings that are described in the lsﬁntro(1) man page is not supported.
Explicit and implicit select sections
An explicit select section starts from the section keyword and ends at the begin of next section, for example: the select section is
select[selection_string]. An implicit select section starts from the ﬁrst letter of the resource requirement string and ends at the end of the
string if there are no other resource requirement sections. If the resource requirement has other sections, the implicit select section ends before the
ﬁrst letter of the ﬁrst section following the selection string.
All explicit sections must begin with a section keywords (select, order, span rusage, or same). The resource requirement content is contained by
square brackets ([) and (]).
An implicit select section must be the ﬁrst resource requirement string in the whole resource requirement speciﬁcation. Explicit select sections can
appear after other sections. A resource requirement string can have only one select section (either an explicit select section or an implicit select
section). A section with an incorrect keyword name is not a valid section.
An implicit select section must have the same format as the content of an explicit select section. For example, the following commands are correct:
bsub -R "select[swp>15] rusage[mem=100]" myjob
bsub -R "swp > 15 rusage[mem=100]" myjob
bsub -R "rusage[mem=100] select[swp >15]" myjob
Examples
The following examples illustrate some correct resource requirement select string syntax.
bsub -R "(r15s * 2 + r15m) < 3.0 && !(type == IBMAIX4) || fs" myjob
If swap space is equal to 0, the following means TRUE; if swap space is not equal to 0, it means FALSE:
bsub -R "!swp" myjob 
Select hosts of the same type as the host submitting the job:
bsub -R "type == local" myjob
IBM Spectrum LSF 551

Select hosts that are not the same type as the host submitting the job:
bsub -R "type != local" myjob
bsub -R "r15s < 1.0 || model ==local && swp <= 10" myjob
Since && has a higher priority than ||, this example means:
r15s < 1.0 || (model == local  && swp <=10)
This example has different meaning from the previous example:
bsub -R "(r15s < 1.0 || model == local) && swp <= 10" myjob
This example means:
(r15s < 1.0 || model == local) && swp <= 10
Check resource requirement syntax
Use the BSUB_CHK_RESREQ environment variable to check the compatibility of your existing resource requirement select strings against the stricter
syntax enabled by LSF_STRICT_RESREQ=Y in lsf.conf.
Set the BSUB_CHK_RESREQ environment variable to any value enable bsub to check the syntax of the resource requirement selection string without
actually submitting the job for scheduling and dispatch. LSF_STRICT_RESREQ does not need to be set to check the resource requirement selection
string syntax.
bsub only checks the select section of the resource requirement. Other sections in the resource requirement string are not checked.
If resource requirement checking detects syntax errors in the selection string, bsub returns an error message. For example:
bsub -R "select[type==local] select[hname=abc]" sleep 10 
Error near "select": duplicate section. Job not submitted. 
echo $? 
255
If no errors are found, bsub returns a successful message and exit code zero. For example:
env | grep BSUB_CHK_RESREQ 
BSUB_CHK_RESREQ=1 
bsub -R "select[type==local]" sleep 10 
Resource requirement string is valid. 
echo $? 
0
If BSUB_CHK_RESREQ is set, but you do not specify -R, LSF treats it as empty resource requirement. For example:
bsub sleep 120 
Resource requirement string is valid. 
echo $? 
0
Resizable jobs
Resize allocation requests are scheduled using hosts as determined by the select expression of the merged resource requirement. For example, to
run an autoresizable job on 1-100 slots, but only on hosts of type X86_64, the following job submission speciﬁes this resource request:
bsub -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n "1,100" -R "rusage[swp=100,license=1]" myjob
Every time the job grows in slots, slots are requested on hosts of the speciﬁed type.
Note: Resizable jobs cannot have compound or alternative resource requirements.
Order string
The order string allows the selected hosts to be sorted according to the values of resources. The values of r15s, r1m, and r15m used for sorting are
the normalized load indices that are returned by lsload -N.
The order string is used for host sorting and selection. The ordering begins with the rightmost index in the order string and proceeds from right to left.
The hosts are sorted into order based on each load index, and if more hosts are available than were requested, the LIM drops the least desirable
hosts according to that index. The remaining hosts are then sorted by the next index.
After the hosts are sorted by the leftmost index in the order string, the ﬁnal phase of sorting orders the hosts according to their status, with hosts
that are currently not available for load sharing (that is, not in the ok state) listed at the end.
Because the hosts are sorted again for each load index, only the host status and the leftmost index in the order string actually affect the order in
which hosts are listed. The other indices are only used to drop undesirable hosts from the list.
552    IBM Spectrum LSF

When sorting is done on each index, the direction in which the hosts are sorted (increasing versus decreasing values) is determined by the default
order returned by lsinfo for that index. This direction is chosen such that after sorting, by default, the hosts are ordered from best to worst on that
index.
When used with a cu string, the preferred compute unit order takes precedence. Within each compute unit hosts are ordered according to the order
string requirements.
Syntax
[!] [-]resource_name [:[-]resource_name]...
You can specify any built-in or external load index or static resource.
The syntax ! sorts the candidate hosts. It applies to the entire order [] section. After candidate hosts are selected and sorted initially, they are
sorted again before a job is scheduled by all plug-ins. ! is the ﬁrst character in the merged order [] string if you specify it.
! only works with consumable resources because resources can be speciﬁed in the order [] section and their value may be changed in schedule
cycle (for example, slot or memory). For the scheduler, slots in RUN, SSUSP, USUP and RSV may become free in different scheduling phases.
Therefore, the slot value may change in different scheduling cycles.
Using slots to order candidate hosts may not always improve the utilization of whole cluster. The utilization of the cluster depends on many factors.
When an index name is preceded by a minus sign ‘-’, the sorting order is reversed so that hosts are ordered from worst to best on that index.
In the following example, LSF ﬁrst tries to pack jobs on to hosts with the least slots. Three serial jobs and one parallel job are submitted.
HOST_NAME STATUS JL/U MAX NJOBS RUN SSUSP USUSP RSV
hostA ok - 4 0 0 0 0 0
hostB ok - 4 0 0 0 0 0
The three serial jobs are submitted:
bsub -R "order[-slots]" job1
bsub -R "order[-slots]" job2
bsub -R "order[-slots]" job3
The parallel job is submitted:
bsub -n 4 -R "order[-slots] span[hosts=1]" sleep 1000
The serial jobs are dispatched to one host (hostA). The parallel job is dispatched to another host.
Change the global LSF default sorting order
You can change the global LSF system default sorting order of resource requirements so the scheduler can ﬁnd the right candidate host. This makes
it easier to maintain a single global default order instead of having to set a default order in the lsb.queues ﬁle for every queue deﬁned in the system.
You can also specify a default order to replace the default sorting value of r15s:pg, which could impact performance in large scale clusters.
To set the default order, you can use the DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER parameter in lsb.params. For example, you can pack jobs onto hosts with the
fewest free slots by setting DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER=-slots:-maxslots. This will dispatch jobs to the host with the fewest free slots and
secondly to hosts with the smallest number of jobs slots deﬁned (MXJ). This will leave larger blocks of free slots on the hosts with larger MXJ (if the
slot utilization in the cluster is not too high).
Commands with the –R parameter (such as bhosts, bmod and bsub) will use the default order deﬁned in DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER for scheduling if
no order is speciﬁed in the command.
To change the system default sorting order:
1. Conﬁgure the DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER in lsb.params.
2. Run badmin reconﬁg to have the changes take effect.
3. Optional: Run bparams -a | grep ORDER to verify that the parameter was set. Output similar to that shown in the following example appears:
DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER = r15m:it
4. Submit your job.
5. When you check the output, you can see the sort order for the resource requirements in the RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS section:
bjobs -l 422 
Job <422>, User <lsfadmin>, Project <default> 
Status <DONE>, Queue <normal>, Command <sleep1> 
IBM Spectrum LSF 553

Fri Jan 18 13:29:35: Submitted from hostA, CWD 
                     <home/admin/lsf/conf/lsbatch/LSF/configdir>; 
Fri Jan 18 13:29:37: Started on <hostA>, Execution Home </home/lsfadmin>, 
Execution CWD </home/admin/lsf/conf/lsbatch/LSF/configdir>; 
Fri Jan 18 13:29:44: Done successfully. The CPU time used is 0.0 seconds. 
  
  MEMORY USAGE: 
  MAX MEM: 3 Mbytes;  AVG MEM: 3 Mbytes 
  
  SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
          r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp   mem 
loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
  
RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS: 
Combined: select[type == local] order[r15m:it] 
Effective: select[type == local] order[r15m:it] 
When changing the value for DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER, note the following:
For job scheduling, there are three levels at which you can sort resources from the order section: job-level, application-level and queue-level.
The sort order for resource requirements deﬁned at the job level overwrites those deﬁned at the application level or queue level. The sort
order for resource requirements deﬁned at the application level overwrites those deﬁned at the queue level. If no sort order is deﬁned at any
level, mbschd uses the value of DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER when scheduling the job.
You should only sort by one or two resources since it may take longer to sort with more.
Once the job is running, you cannot redeﬁne the sort order. However, you can still change it while the job is in PEND state.
For MultiCluster forward and MultiCluster lease modes, the DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER value for each local cluster is used.
If you change DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER then requeue a running job, the job will use the new DEFAULT_RESREQ_ORDER value for scheduling.
Specify multiple -R options
bsub accepts multiple -R options for the order section.
Restriction:
Compound resource requirements do not support multiple -R options.
You can specify multiple resource requirement strings instead of using the && operator. For example:
bsub -R "order[r15m]" -R "order[ut]"
LSF merges the multiple -R options into one string and dispatches the job if all of the resource requirements can be met. By allowing multiple
resource requirement strings and automatically merging them into one string, LSF simpliﬁes the use of multiple layers of wrapper scripts. The
number of -R option sections is unlimited.
Default
The default sorting order is r15s:pg: ls:r1m).
swp:r1m:tmp:r15s 
Resizable jobs
The order in which hosts are considered for resize allocation requests is determined by the order expression of the job. For example, to run an
autoresizable job on 1-100 slots, preferring hosts with larger memory, the following job submission speciﬁes this resource request:
bsub -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n "1,100" -R "rusage[swp=100,license=1]" myjob 
When slots on multiple hosts become available simultaneously, hosts with larger available memory get preference when the job adds slots.
Note:
Resizable jobs cannot have compound or alternative resource requirements.
Reordering hosts
You can reorder hosts using the order[! ] syntax.
Suppose host h1 exists in a cluster and has 110 units of a consumable resource 'res' while host h2 has 20 of this resource ('res' can be the new batch
built-in resource slots, for example). Assume that these two jobs are pending and being considered by scheduler in same scheduling cycle, and job1
will be scheduled ﬁrst:
Job1: bsub -R “maxmem>1000” -R “order[res] rusage[res=100]” -q q1 sleep 10000
554    IBM Spectrum LSF

Job2: bsub -R “mem<1000” -R “order[res] rusage[res=10]” -q q2 sleep 10000
Early in the scheduling cycle, a candidate host list is built by taking either all hosts in the cluster or the hosts listed in any asked host list (-m) and
ordering them by the order section of the resource requirement string. Assume the ordered candidate host lists for the jobs look like this after the
ordering:
Job1:{h1, h7, h4, h10}
Job2:{h1, 
h2}
This means h1 ends up being the highest 'res' host the candidate host lists of both jobs. In later scheduling only, one by one each job will be
allocated hosts to run on and resources from these hosts.
Suppose Job1 is scheduled to land on host h1, and thus will be allocated 100 'res'. Then when Job2 is considered, it too might be scheduled to land
on host h1 because its candidate host list still looks the same. That is, it does not take into account the 100 'res' allocated to Job1 within this same
scheduling cycle. To resolve this problem, use ! at the beginning of the order section to force the scheduler to re-order candidate host lists for jobs in
the later scheduling phase:
Job1: bsub -R “maxmem>1000” -R “order[!res] rusage[res=100]” -q q1 sleep 10000
Job2: bsub -R “mem <1000” -R “order[!res] rusage[res=10]” -q q2 sleep 10000
The ! forces a reordering of Job2's candidate host list to Job2: {h2, h1} since after Job1 is allocated 100 'res' on h1, h1 will have 10 'res' (110-100)
whereas h2 will have 20.
You can combine new batch built-in resources slots/maxslots with both reverse ordering and re-ordering to better ensure that large parallel jobs will
have a chance to run later (improved packing). For example:
bsub -n 2 -R “order[!-slots:maxslots]” ...
bsub -n 1 -R “order[!-slots:maxslots]” ...
Usage string
This string deﬁnes the expected resource usage of the job. It is used to specify resource reservations for jobs, or for mapping jobs on to hosts and
adjusting the load when running interactive jobs.
By default, no resources are reserved.
LSF rejects resource requirement strings where an rusage section contains a non-consumable resource.
Multi-phase resources
Multiple phases within the rusage string allow different time periods to have different memory requirements (load index mem). The duration of all
except the last phase must be speciﬁed, while decay rates are all optional and are assumed to be 0 if omitted. If the optional ﬁnal duration is left
blank, the ﬁnal resource requirement applies until the job is ﬁnished.
Multi-phase resource reservations cannot include increasing resources, but can specify constant or decreasing resource reservations over multiple
periods of time.
Resource reservation limits
Resource requirement reservation limits can be set using the parameter RESRSV_LIMIT in lsb.queues. Queue-level RES_REQ rusage values (set in
lsb.queues) must be in the range set by RESRSV_LIMIT, or the queue-level RES_REQ is ignored. Merged RES_REQ rusage values from the job and
application levels must be in the range of RESRSV_LIMIT, or the job is rejected.
When both the RES_REQ and RESRSV_LIMIT are set in lsb.queues for a consumable resource, the queue-level RES_REQ no longer acts as a hard
limit for the merged RES_REQ rusage values from the job and application levels. In this case only the limits set by RESRSV_LIMIT must be satisﬁed,
and the queue-level RES_REQ acts as a default value.
Batch jobs
The resource usage (rusage) section can be speciﬁed at the job level, with the queue conﬁguration parameter RES_REQ, or with the application
proﬁle parameter RES_REQ.
Basic syntax
rusage[usage_string [, usage_string][|| usage_string] ...]
where usage_string is:
IBM Spectrum LSF 555

load_index=value [:load_index=value]... [:duration=minutes[m] 
 | :duration=hoursh | :duration=secondss [:decay=0 | :decay=1]]
Note: The default unit for duration is "minutes". To use hours or seconds as the unit, append "h" or "s" to the duration value. For example,
duration=30 means 30 minutes, as does duration=30m explicitly. Accordingly, duration=30h means 30 hours, and duration=30s means 30 seconds.
The keyword threshold in the rusage section lets you specify a threshold at which the consumed resource must be before an allocation should be
made. If the threshold is not satisﬁed for every host in the cluster, the job becomes pending.
To specify a threshold in the command line, use bsub -R to attach a threshold to a resource in the rusage section. For example:
bsub -R "rusage[bwidth=1:threshold=5]" sleep 100
You can use bmod -R to change the content of the rusage section. For example:
bmod -R "rusage[bwidth=1:threshold=7]" <job ID>
To specify a threshold in the conﬁguration ﬁle, Use RES_REQ to attach a threshold to a resource in lsb.queues. For example:
RES_REQ = rusage[bwidth=1:threshold=5]
You can use RES_REQ to attach a threshold to a resource in lsb.applications. For example:
RES_REQ = rusage[bwidth=1:threshold=5]
Multi-phase memory syntax
rusage[multi_usage_string [, usage_string]...] 
where multi_usage_string is:
mem=(v1 [v2 … vn]):[duration=(t1 [t2 … tm])][:decay=(d1 [d2... dk])] 
for m = n|n-1. For a single phase (n=1), duration is not required.
if k > m, dm+1 to dk will be ignored; if k < m, dk+1 =.. = dm = 0.
usage_string is the same as the basic syntax, for any load_index other than mem.
Multi-phase syntax can be used with a single phase memory resource requirement as well as for multiple phases.
For multi-phase slot-based resource reservation, use with RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK=Y in lsb.params.
Multi-phase resource reservations cannot increase over time. A job submission with increasing resource reservations from one phase to the next will
be rejected. For example:
bsub -R"rusage[mem=(200 300):duration=(2 3)]" myjob
speciﬁes an increasing memory reservation from 200 MB to 300 MB. This job will be rejected.
Tip: When a multi-phase mem resource requirement is being used, duration can be speciﬁed separately for single-phase resources.
Load index
Internal and external load indices are considered in the resource usage string. The resource value represents the initial reserved amount of the
resource.
Duration
The duration is the time period within which the speciﬁed resources should be reserved. Specify a duration equal to or greater than the ELIM
updating interval.
If the value is followed by the letter s, m, or h, the speciﬁed time is measured in seconds, minutes, or hours respectively.
By default, duration is speciﬁed in minutes.
For example, the following specify a duration of 1 hour for multi-phase syntax:
duration=(60)
duration=(1h)
duration=(3600s)
For example, the following specify a duration of 1 hour for single-phase syntax:
duration=60
duration=1h
duration=3600s
Tip: Duration is not supported for static shared resources. If the shared resource is deﬁned in an lsb.resources Limit section, then
duration is not applied.
Decay
The decay value indicates how the reserved amount should decrease over the duration.
556    IBM Spectrum LSF

A value of 1 indicates that system should linearly decrease the amount reserved over the duration.
A value of 0 causes the total amount to be reserved for the entire duration.
Values other than 0 or 1 are unsupported, and are taken as the default value of 0. If duration is not speciﬁed, decay value is ignored.
Tip: Decay is not supported for static shared resources. If the shared resource is deﬁned in an lsb.resources Limit section, then decay is not applied.
Default
If a resource or its value is not speciﬁed, the default is not to reserve that resource. If duration is not speciﬁed, the default is to reserve the total
amount for the lifetime of the job. (The default decay value is 0.)
Example
rusage[mem=50:duration=100:decay=1] 
This example indicates that 50 MB memory should be reserved for the job. As the job runs, the amount reserved will decrease at approximately 0.5
MB per minute until the 100 minutes is up.
Resource reservation method
Specify the resource reservation method in the resource usage string by using the /job, /host, or /task keyword after the numeric value. The resource
reservation method speciﬁed in the resource string overrides the global setting that is speciﬁed in the ReservationUsage section of the lsb.resources
ﬁle. You can only specify resource reservation methods for consumable resources. Specify the resource reservation methods as follows:
value/task
Speciﬁes per-task reservation of the speciﬁed resource. This is the equivalent of specifying PER_TASK for the METHOD parameter in the
ReservationUsage section of the lsb.resources ﬁle.
value/job
Speciﬁes per-job reservation of the speciﬁed resource. This is the equivalent of specifying PER_JOB for the METHOD parameter in the
ReservationUsage section of the lsb.resources ﬁle.
value/host
Speciﬁes per-host reservation of the speciﬁed resource. This is the equivalent of specifying PER_HOST for the METHOD parameter in the
ReservationUsage section of the lsb.resources ﬁle.
Basic syntax:
resource_name=value/method:duration=value:decay=value
For example,
rusage[mem=10/host:duration=10:decay=0]
Multi-phase memory syntax:
resource_name=(value ...)/method:duration=(value ...):decay=value
For example,
rusage[mem=(50 20)/task:duration=(10 5):decay=0]
How simple queue-level and job-level rusage sections are resolved
Job-level rusage overrides the queue level speciﬁcation:
For internal load indices (r15s, r1m, r15m, ut, pg, io, ls, it, tmp, swp, and mem), the job-level value cannot be larger than the queue-level value
(unless the limit parameter RESRSV_LIMIT is being used as a maximum instead of the queue-level value).
For external load indices, the job-level rusage can be larger than the queue-level requirements.
For duration, the job-level value of internal and external load indices cannot be larger than the queue-level value.
For multi-phase simple rusage sections:
For internal load indices (r15s, r1m, r15m, ut, pg, io, ls, it, tmp, swp, and mem), the ﬁrst phase of the job-level value cannot be larger
than the ﬁrst phase of the queue-level value (unless the limit parameter RESRSV_LIMIT is being used as a maximum instead of the
queue-level value).
For duration and decay, if either job-level or queue-level is multi-phase, the job-level value will take precedence.
How simple queue-level and job-level rusage sections are merged
When both job-level and queue-level rusage sections are deﬁned, the rusage section deﬁned for the job overrides the rusage section deﬁned in the
queue. The two rusage deﬁnitions are merged, with the job-level rusage taking precedence. For example:
Example 1
Given a RES_REQ deﬁnition in a queue:
RES_REQ = rusage[mem=200:lic=1] ... 
IBM Spectrum LSF 557

and job submission:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=100]" ... 
The resulting requirement for the job is
rusage[mem=100:lic=1] 
where mem=100 speciﬁed by the job overrides mem=200 speciﬁed by the queue. However, lic=1 from queue is kept, since job does not specify it.
Example 2
For the following queue-level RES_REQ (decay and duration deﬁned):
RES_REQ = rusage[mem=200:duration=20:decay=1] ... 
and job submission (no decay or duration):
bsub -R "rusage[mem=100]" ... 
The resulting requirement for the job is:
rusage[mem=100:duration=20:decay=1] 
Queue-level duration and decay are merged with the job-level speciﬁcation, and mem=100 for the job overrides mem=200 speciﬁed by the queue.
However, duration=20 and decay=1 from queue are kept, since job does not specify them.
rusage in application proﬁles
See Resource requirements for information about how resource requirements in application proﬁles are resolved with queue-level and job-level
resource requirements.
How simple queue-level rusage sections are merged with compound rusage sections
When simple queue-level and compound application-level or job-level rusage sections are deﬁned, the two rusage deﬁnitions are merged. If a job-
level resource requirement (simple or compound) is deﬁned, the application level is ignored and the job-level and queue-level sections merge. If no
job-level resource requirement is deﬁned, the application-level and queue-level merge.
When a compound resource requirement merges with a simple resource requirement from the queue-level, the behavior depends on whether the
queue-level requirements are job-based or not.
Example 1
Job-based simple queue-level requirements apply to the ﬁrst term of the merged compound requirements. For example:
Given a RES_REQ deﬁnition for a queue which refers to a job-based resource:
RES_REQ = rusage[lic=1] ... 
and job submission resource requirement:
bsub -R "2*{rusage[mem=100] ...} + 4*{[mem=200:duration=20:decay=1] ...}" 
The resulting requirement for the job is
bsub -R "2*{rusage[mem=100:lic=1] ...} + 4*{rusage[mem=200:duration=20:decay=1] ...}" 
The job-based resource lic=1 from queue is added to the ﬁrst term only, since it is job-based and wasn’t included the job-level requirement.
Example 2
Host-based or slot-based simple queue-level requirements apply to all terms of the merged compound requirements. For example:
For the following queue-level RES_REQ which does not include job-based resources:
RES_REQ = rusage[mem=200:duration=20:decay=1] ... 
and job submission:
bsub -R "2*{rusage[mem=100] ...} + 4*{rusage[lic=1] ...}" 
The resulting requirement for the job is:
2*{rusage[mem=100:duration=20:decay=1] ...} + 4*{rusage[lic=1:mem=200:duration=20:decay=1] ...} 
Where duration=20 and decay=1 from queue are kept, since job does not specify them in any term. In the ﬁrst term mem=100 from the job is kept;
in the second term mem=200 from the queue is used since it wasn’t speciﬁed by the job resource requirement.
Specify multiple -R options
558    IBM Spectrum LSF

bsub accepts multiple -R options for the rusage section.
Restriction: Compound resource requirements do not support multiple -R options. Multi-phase rusage strings do not support multiple -R options.
You can specify multiple resource requirement strings instead of using the && operator. For example:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=100]" -R "rusage[tmp=50:duration=60]"
LSF merges the multiple -R options into one string and dispatches the job if all of the resource requirements can be met. By allowing multiple
resource requirement strings and automatically merging them into one string, LSF simpliﬁes the use of multiple layers of wrapper scripts.
The number of -R option sections is unlimited.
Comma-separated multiple resource requirements within one rusage string is supported. For example:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=20]" -R "rusage[mem=10||mem=10]" myjob
A given load index cannot appear more than once in the resource usage string.
Specify alternative usage strings
If you use more than one version of an application, you can specify the version you prefer to use together with a legacy version you can use if the
preferred version is not available. Use the OR (||) expression to separate the different usage strings that deﬁne your alternative resources.
Job-level resource requirement speciﬁcations that use the || operator are merged with other rusage requirements deﬁned at the application and
queue levels.
Note: Alternative rusage strings cannot be submitted with compound resource requirements.
How LSF merges rusage strings that contain the || operator
The following examples show how LSF merges job-level and queue-level rusage strings that contain the || operator.
Queue level
RES_REQ=rusage…Job level bsub -R
"rusage …Resulting rusage string
[mem=200:duration=180][w1=1 || w2=1 ||
w3=1]"[w1=1, mem=200:duration=180 || w2=1, mem=200:duration=180 || w3=1,
mem=200:duration=180]
[w1=1 || w2=1 || w3=1][mem=200:duration=
180]"[mem=200:duration=180, w1=1 || mem=200:duration=180, w2=1 ||
mem=200:duration=180, w3=1]
Note:
Alternative rusage strings cannot be submitted with compound resource requirements.
Non-batch environments
Resource reservation is only available for batch jobs. If you run jobs using only LSF Base, such as through lsrun, LIM uses resource usage to
determine the placement of jobs. Resource usage requests are used to temporarily increase the load so that a host is not overloaded. When LIM
makes a placement advice, external load indices are not considered in the resource usage string. In this case, the syntax of the resource usage string
is
res[=value]:res[=value]: ... :res[=value] 
res is one of the resources whose value is returned by the lsload command.
rusage[r1m=0.5:mem=20:swp=40] 
The preceding example indicates that the task is expected to increase the 1-minute run queue length by 0.5, consume 20 MB of memory and 40 MB
of swap space.
If no value is speciﬁed, the task is assumed to be intensive in using that resource. In this case no more than one task will be assigned to a host
regardless of how many CPUs it has.
The default resource usage for a task is r15s=1.0:r1m=1.0:r15m=1.0. This indicates a CPU-intensive task which consumes few other resources.
Resizable jobs
Unlike the other components of a resource requirement string that only pertain to adding additional slots to a running job, rusage resource
requirement strings affect the resource usage when slots are removed from the job as well.
When adding or removing slots from a running job:
The amount of slot-based resources added to or removed from the job allocation is proportional to the change in the number of slots
The amount of job-based resources is not affected by a change in the number of slots
The amount of each host-based resource is proportional to the change in the number of hosts
IBM Spectrum LSF 559

When using multi-phase resource reservation, the job allocation is based on the phase of the resource reservation.
Note: Resizable jobs cannot have compound resource requirements.
Duration and decay of rusage
Duration and decay of resource usage and the || operator affect resource allocation.
Duration or decay of a resource in the rusage expression is ignored when scheduling the job for the additional slots.
If a job has the following rusage string: rusage[mem=100:duration=300], the resize request of one additional slot is scheduled on a host only if
there are 100 units of memory available on that host. In this case, mem is a slot-based resource (RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK=Y in lsb.params).
Once the resize operation is done, if the job has been running less than 300 seconds then additional memory will be reserved only until the job has
run for 300 seconds. If the job has been running for more than 300 seconds when the job is resized, no additional memory is reserved. The behavior
is similar for decay.
The || operator lets you specify multiple alternative rusage strings, one of which is used when dispatching the job. You cannot use bmod to change
rusage to a new one with a || operator after the job has been dispatched
For job resize, when the || operator is used, the resize request uses the rusage expression that was originally used to dispatch the job. If the rusage
expression has been modiﬁed since the job started, the resize request is scheduled using the new single rusage expression.
Example 1
You want to run an autoresizable job such that every slot occupied by the job reserves 100 MB of swap space. In this case, swp is a slot-based
resource (RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK=Y in lsb.params). Each additional slot that is allocated to the job should reserve additional swap space.
The following job submission speciﬁes this resource request:
bsub -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n "1,100" -R "rusage[swp=100]" myjob  
Similarly, if you want to release some of the slots from a running job, resources that are reserved by the job are decreased appropriately. For
example, for the following job submission:
bsub -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n 100 -R "rusage[swp=50]" myjob  
Job <123> is submitted to default queue.
you can run bresize release to release all the slots from the job on one host:
bresize release "hostA" 123
The swap space used by the job is reduced by the number of slots used on hostA times 50 MB.
Example 2
You have a choice between two versions of an application, each version having different memory and swap space requirements on hosts. If you
submit an autoresizable job with the || operator, once the job is started using one version of an application, slots added to a job during a resize
operation reserve resources depending on which version of the application was originally run. For example, for the following job submission:
bsub -n "1,100" -ar -R "rusage[mem=20:app_lic_v201=1 || mem=20:swp=50:app_lic_v15=1]" myjob 
If the job starts with app_lic_v15, each additional slot added in a resize operation reserves 20 MB of memory and 50 MB of swap space.
Span string
A span string speciﬁes the locality of a parallel job. If span is omitted, LSF allocates the required processors for the job from the available set of
processors.
Syntax
The span string supports the following syntax:
span[hosts=1]
Indicates that all the processors allocated to this job must be on the same host.
span[block=value]
For parallel jobs, LSF will allocate slots to the job based on block size. LSF tries to pack as many blocks on one host as possible, then goes to
next one. Each host is only checked once.
span[ptile=value]
Indicates the number of processors on each host that should be allocated to the job, where value is one of the following:
Default ptile value, speciﬁed by n processors. In the following example, the job requests 4 processors on each available host,
regardless of how many processors the host has:
span[ptile=4]
560    IBM Spectrum LSF

Predeﬁned ptile value, speciﬁed by ’!’. The following example uses the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit lsb.hosts (MXJ per host
type/model) as its value:
span[ptile='!']
Tip: If the host type/model does not deﬁne MXJ, the span[ptile='!'] value is ignored.
Restriction: Under bash 3.0, the exclamation mark (!) is not interpreted correctly by the shell. To use predeﬁned ptile value (ptile='!'),
use the +H option to disable '!' style history substitution in bash (sh +H).
Predeﬁned ptile value with optional multiple ptile values, per host type or host model:
For host type, you must specify same[type] in the resource requirement. In the following example, the job requests 8
processors on a host of type HP, and 2 processors on a host of type LINUX, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host types:
span[ptile='!',HP:8,LINUX:2] same[type]
For host model, you must specify same[model] in the resource requirement. In the following example, the job requests 4
processors on hosts of model PC1133, and 2 processors on hosts of model PC233, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host models:
span[ptile='!',PC1133:4,PC233:2] same[model]
span[stripe]
For parallel jobs, LSF stripes the tasks of the job across the free resources of the candidate hosts.
For example, if you submit a job that requests four tasks with the following command:
bsub -n 4 -R "span[stripe]" ./a.out
The task placement depends on the free resources:
If there is one candidate host, that host has four tasks (4).
If there are two candidate hosts, each host has two tasks (2,2).
If there are three candidate hosts, one host has two tasks, and the two other hosts have one task each (2,1,1).
If there are four candidate hosts, each host has one task (1,1,1,1).
span[stripe=max_tasks]
For parallel jobs, LSF stripes the tasks of the job across the free resources of the candidate hosts up to the speciﬁed maximum number of
tasks on each host.
span[hosts=-1]
Disables span setting in the queue. LSF allocates the required processors for the job from the available set of processors.
Examples
The following examples are for jobs that are submitted in a cluster with the following idle hosts:
bhosts 
HOST_NAME          STATUS       JL/U    MAX  NJOBS    RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV 
host1              ok              -     32      0      0      0      0      0 
host2              ok              -     32      0      0      0      0      0 
host3              ok              -     32      0      0      0      0      0 
host4              ok              -     32      0      0      0      0      0 
host5              ok              -     32      0      0      0      0      0
Submit a job with striping:
bsub -n 32 -R "span[stripe]" myjob
View the task distribution of a job with striping:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
118     userA   RUN   normal     hostA       7*host1     myjob      Nov 29 14:27 
                                             7*host2 
                                             6*host3 
                                             6*host4 
                                             6*host5
Tasks are distributed evenly to the hosts, and any additional tasks are distributed to the ﬁrst hosts. There are 7 tasks on host1 and host2, and
6 tasks on host3, host4, and host5.
Submit a job with ptile:
bsub -n 32 -R "span[ptile=8]" myjob
View the task distribution of a job with ptile:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
119     userA   RUN   normal     hostA       8*host1     myjob      Nov 29 14:29 
                                             8*host2 
IBM Spectrum LSF 561

                                             8*host3 
                                             8*host4
Tasks are distributed with exactly 8 tasks per host, except the last host might have less tasks than the ptile value if there are fewer total tasks
to distribute.
Submit a job based on block size:
bsub -n 32 -R "span[block=8]" myjob
View the task distribution of a job based on block size:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
120     userA   RUN   normal     hostA       32*host1    myjob      Nov 29 14:32
Tasks are packed in blocks of 8.
Submit a job to a single host:
bsub -n 32 -R "span[hosts=1]" myjob
View the task distribution of a job that is submitted to a single host:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
121     userA   RUN   normal     hostA       32*host1    myjob      Nov 29 14:34
Tasks are placed into a single host (host1).
Resizable jobs
For resource requirements with span[hosts=1], a resize request is limited to slots on the ﬁrst-execution host of the job. This behavior eliminates the
ambiguities that arise when the span expression is modiﬁed from the time that the job was originally dispatched.
For span[ptile=n], the job will be allocated exactly n slots on some number of hosts, and a number between 1 and n slots (inclusive) on one host. This
is true even if a range of slots is requested. For example, for the following job submission:
bsub -n "1,20" -R "span[ptile=2]" sleep 10000
This special span behavior does not only apply to resize requests. It applies to resizable jobs only when the original allocation is made, and in making
additional resize allocations.
If every host has only a single slot available, the job is allocated one slot.
Resize requests with partially ﬁlled hosts are handled so that LSF does not choose any slots on hosts already occupied by the job. For example, it is
common to use the ptile feature with span[ptile=1] to schedule exclusive jobs.
For a resizable job (auto-resizable or otherwise) with a range of slots requested and span[ptile=n], whenever the job is allocated slots, it will receive
either of the following:
The maximum number of slots requested, comprising n slots on each of a number of hosts, and between 0 and n-1 (inclusive) slots on one
host
n slots on each of a number of hosts, summing to some value less than the maximum
For example, if a job requests between 1 and 14 additional slots, and span[ptile=4] is part of the job resource requirement string, when additional
slots are allocated to the job, the job receives either of the following:
14 slots, with 2 slots on one host and 4 slots on each of 3 hosts
4, 8 or 12 slots, such that 4 slots are allocated per host of the allocation
Note: Resizable jobs cannot have compound resource requirements.
Example
When running a parallel exclusive job, it is often desirable to specify span[ptile=1] so that the job is allocated at most one slot on each host. For
an autoresizable job, new slots are allocated on hosts not already used by the job. The following job submission speciﬁes this resource request:
bsub -x -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n "1,100" -R "span[ptile=1]" myjob
When additional slots are allocated to a running job, the slots will be on new hosts, not already occupied by the job.
Block scheduling
For applications that are not especially sensitive to network latency, or where you prefer to get throughput, you can allocate slots for a parallel job
with a speciﬁc block size. The applications speciﬁed by the job may be running as threaded processes on groups of n cores, but using MPI
applications or other socket connections between blocks. LSF will allocate slots to the job based on block size. LSF tries to pack as many blocks on
562    IBM Spectrum LSF

one host as possible, then goes to next one. Each host is only checked once. It does not matter which host contains the slot blocks. The job can start
as soon as any previous job is complete.
In the illustration below, for example, each color represents a different job. There are four 16 way jobs:
For bsub -n 16 and block=4, only 4 x 4 slot blocks are necessary. It does not matter which host contains the slot blocks. The job can start as soon
as any previous job is complete.
This packing policy is supported by the keyword block (“span[block=value]”) in the span section of the resource requirement string.
“span[block=value]” can also be conﬁgured in the RES_REQ parameter in lsb.queues and lsb.applications.
When a block size is speciﬁed for a job, LSF allocates only a multiple of the block size for the job. For example, for jobs with block size = 4:
bsub -n 2,13: 4, 8 or 12 slots are allocated to the job (in blocks of size 4).
bsub -n 5: The job is rejected.
bsub -n 9,10: The job is rejected.
bsub -n 2,3: The job is rejected.
bsub -n 12: The job is accept, and allocates 3 blocks of size 4.
bsub -n 2: The job is rejected.
bsub -n 3: The job is rejected.
The minimum value in -n min,max is silently changed to a multiple of the block. For example:
bsub -n 2,8 -R span[block=4] sleep 1d
is changed to:
bsub -n 4,8 -R span[block=4] sleep 1d
LSF tries to pack as many blocks in to one host as possible, then goes to the next host. For example, assume host1 has 8 slots, and host2 has 8 slots,
and host3 also has 8 slots, where 2 slots of each host are consumed by other jobs. For a job with -n 9 "span[block=3]”, the allocation will be:
host1: 6 slots
host2: 3 slots
The following is an example of how you can display hosts with their static and dynamic resource information, specify a block size and resource
requirements for a job, and see the output:
bhosts 
HOST_NAME  STATUS   JL/U   MAX  NJOBS   RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV  
hostA      ok        -     8      0     0      0      0      0 
hostB      ok        -     8      0     0      0      0      0 
hostC      ok        -     8      0     0      0      0      0 
hostD      unavail   -     1      0     0      0      0      0 
hostE      ok        -     4      0     0      0      0      0 
hostF      ok        -     4      0     0      0      0      0 
  
bsub -n 24 -R "order[slots] span[block=4]" sleep 1d 
Job <418> is submitted to default queue <normal>. 
  
bjobs 
JOBID  USER  STAT  QUEUE  FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME  SUBMIT_TIME 
418    user1 RUN   normal hostE      8*hostC    sleep 1d  Sep  4 21:36 
                                     8*hostB    sleep 1d  Sep  4 21:36 
                                     8*hostA    sleep 1d  Sep  4 21:36 
  
bhosts 
HOST_NAME  STATUS    JL/U   MAX  NJOBS   RUN  SSUSP  USUSP   RSV 
hostA      closed     -     8      8     8      0      0     0 
hostB      closed     -     8      8     8      0      0     0 
hostC      closed     -     8      8     8      0      0     0 
hostD      unavail    -     1      0     0      0      0     0 
hostE      ok         -     4      0     0      0      0     0 
hostF      ok         -     4      0     0      0      0     0
The following are some additional examples of how you can use “span[block=value]” when submitting a job with resource requirements:
To specify a predeﬁned block value, per host type or host model, using !:
IBM Spectrum LSF 563

bsub -n "2,10" –R "span[block='!'] same[type]" myjob
To specify a predeﬁned block value with optional multiple block values, per host type or host model:
bsub -n "2,10" –R “span[block='!',HP:8,SGI:8,LINUX:2] same[type]" myjob
If the host type/model does not deﬁne MXJ, the default predeﬁned block value is 1.
“span[block=value]” can be displayed by bjobs -l, bhist -l, bqueues -l, bapp -l and bacct -l.
When using the block scheduling feature, note the following:
For Queue Host Limit (HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB), mbatchd will not reject a job with block=x because the exact number of allocated hosts can
only be obtained during scheduling.
“span[block=value]” and “span[ptile=value]” cannot be speciﬁed at the same time. “span[block=value]” and
“span[host=value]” also cannot be speciﬁed at the same time because span cannot accept more than one criteria and multiple -R does
not support multiple span deﬁnitions.
For the LSF multicluster capability, when using the job forwarding model, job with block=x cannot be forwarded to a remote cluster which
has a version prior to 9.1.2. When using the leasing model, job with block=x cannot be allocated to hosts leased from a remote cluster with a
version prior to 9.1.2.
Same string
Tip:
You must have the parallel batch job scheduler plugin installed in order to use the same string.
Parallel jobs run on multiple hosts. If your cluster has heterogeneous hosts, some processes from a parallel job may for example, run on Solaris.
However, for performance reasons you may want all processes of a job to run on the same type of host instead of having some processes run on one
type of host and others on another type of host.
The same string speciﬁes that all processes of a parallel job must run on hosts with the same resource.
You can specify the same string:
At the job level in the resource requirement string of:
bsub
bmod
At the queue level in lsb.queues in the RES_REQ parameter.
When queue-level, application-level, and job-level same sections are deﬁned, LSF combines requirements to allocate processors.
Syntax
resource_name[:resource_name]...
You can specify any static resource.
For example, if you specify resource1:resource2, if hosts always have both resources, the string is interpreted as allocate processors only on
hosts that have the same value for resource1 and the same value for resource2.
If hosts do not always have both resources, it is interpreted as allocate processors either on hosts that have the same value for resource1, or on
hosts that have the same value for resource2, or on hosts that have the same value for both resource1 and resource2.
Specify multiple -R options
bsub accepts multiple -R options for the same section.
Restriction: Compound resource requirements do not support multiple -R options.
You can specify multiple resource requirement strings instead of using the && operator. For example:
bsub -R "same[type]" -R "same[model]"
LSF merges the multiple -R options into one string and dispatches the job if all of the resource requirements can be met. By allowing multiple
resource requirement strings and automatically merging them into one string, LSF simpliﬁes the use of multiple layers of wrapper scripts.
Resizable jobs
The same expression ensures that the resize allocation request is dispatched to hosts that have the same resources as the ﬁrst-execution host. For
example, if the ﬁrst execution host of a job is SOL7 and the resource requirement string contains same[type], additional slots are allocated to the
job on hosts of type SOL7.
564    IBM Spectrum LSF

Taking the same resource as the ﬁrst-execution host avoids ambiguities that arise when the original job does not have a same expression deﬁned, or
has a different same expression when the resize request is scheduled.
For example, a parallel job may be required to have all slots on hosts of the same type or model for performance reasons. For an autoresizable job,
any additional slots given to the job will be on hosts of the same type, model, or resource as those slots originally allocated to the job. The following
command submits an autoresizable job such that all slots allocated in a resize operation are allocation on hosts with the same model as the original
job:
bsub -ar -app <appplicaion_file> -n "1,100" -R "same[model]" myjob    
Examples
bsub -n 4 -R"select[type==any] same[type:model]" myjob
Run all parallel processes on the same host type. Allocate 6 processors on the any host type or model as long as all the processors are on the same
host type and model.
bsub -n 6 -R"select[type==any] same[type:model]" myjob
Run all parallel processes on the same host type and model. Allocate 6 processors on any host type or model as long as all the processors are on the
same host type and model.
Same string in application proﬁles
See Resource requirements for information about how resource requirements in application proﬁles are resolved with queue-level and job-level
resource requirements.
Compute unit string
A cu string speciﬁes the network architecture-based requirements of parallel jobs. cu sections are accepted by bsub -R, and by bmod -R for non-
running jobs.
Compute unit strings are supported in compound and alternative resource requirements except for the excl and balance keywords.
Syntax
The cu string supports the following syntax:
cu[type=cu_type]
Indicates the type of compute units the job can run on. Types are deﬁned by COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES in lsb.params. If the type keyword is not
speciﬁed, the default set by COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES is assumed.
cu[pref=bestﬁt | maxavail | minavail | conﬁg]
Indicates the compute unit scheduling preference, grouping hosts by compute unit before applying a ﬁrst-ﬁt algorithm to the sorted hosts. For
resource reservation, the default pref=conﬁg is always used.
Compute units are ordered as follows:
bestfit attempts to place the job in as few compute units as possible while preferring to use compute units with fewer free slots to
reduce fragmentation in the cluster. This scheduling preference does not work with the cu[balance] keyword.
config lists compute units in the order they appear in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts. If pref is not speciﬁed, pref=conﬁg is
assumed.
maxavail lists compute units with more free slots ﬁrst. Should compute units have equal numbers of free slots, they appear in the
order listed in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts.
minavail lists compute units with fewer free slots ﬁrst. Should compute units have equal numbers of free slots, they appear in the
order listed in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts.
Free slots include all available slots that are not occupied by running jobs.
When pref is used with the keyword balance, balance takes precedence.
Hosts accept jobs separated by the time interval set by JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL in lsb.params; jobs submitted closer together than this
interval will run on different hosts regardless of the pref setting.
cu[maxcus=number]
Indicates the maximum number of compute units a job can run over. Jobs may be placed over fewer compute units if possible.
When used with bsub -n min, max a job is allocated the ﬁrst combination satisfying both min and maxcus, while without maxcus a job is
allocated as close to max as possible.
IBM Spectrum LSF 565

cu[usablecuslots=number]
Speciﬁes the minimum number of slots a job must use on each compute unit it occupies. number is a non-negative integer value.
When more than one compute unit is used by a job, the ﬁnal compute unit allocated can provide less than number slots if less are needed.
usablecuslots and balance cannot be used together.
cu[balance]
Indicates that a job should be split evenly between compute units, with a difference in compute unit slot allocation of at most 1. A balanced
allocation spans the fewest compute units possible.
When used with bsub -n min, max the value of max is disregarded.
balance and usablecuslots cannot be used together.
When balance and pref are both used, balance takes precedence. The keyword pref is only considered if there are multiple balanced
allocations spanning the same number of compute units. In this case pref is considered when choosing the allocation. balance cannot be
used with the pref=bestfit scheduling preference.
When balance is used with span[ptile=X] (for X>1) a balanced allocation is one split evenly between compute units, with a difference in
compute unit host allocation of at most 1.
balance cannot be used in compound and alternative resource requirements.
cu[excl]
Indicates that jobs must use compute units exclusively. Exclusivity applies to the compute unit granularity that is speciﬁed by type.
Compute unit exclusivity must be enabled by EXCLUSIVE=CU[cu_type] in lsb.queues.
excl cannot be used in compound and alternative resource requirements.
Resizable jobs
Autoresizable jobs can be submitted with compute unit resource requirements. The maxcus keyword is enforced across the job's entire allocation as
it grows, while the balance and usablecuslots keywords only apply to the initial resource allocation.
Examples
bsub -n 11,60 -R "cu[maxcus=2:type=enclosure]" myjob
Spans the fewest possible compute units for a total allocation of at least 11 slots using at most 2 compute units of type enclosure. In contrast,
without maxcus:
bsub -n 11,60 myjob
In this case, the job is allocated as close to 60 slots as possible, with a minimum of 11 slots.
bsub -n 64 -R "cu[balance:maxcus=4:type=enclosure]" myjob
Spans the fewest possible compute units for a balanced allocation of 64 slots using 4 or less compute units of type enclosure. Possible
balanced allocations (in order of preference) are:
64 slots on 1 enclosure
32 slots on 2 enclosures
22 slots on 1 enclosure and 21 slots on 2 enclosures
16 slots on 4 enclosures
bsub -n 64 -R "cu[excl:maxcus=8:usablecuslots=10]" myjob
Allocates 64 slots over 8 or less compute units in groups of 10 or more slots per compute unit (with one compute unit possibly using less than
10 slots). The default compute unit type set in COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES is used, and are used exclusively by myjob.
bsub -n 58 -R "cu[balance:type=rack:usablecuslots=20]" myjob
Provides a balanced allocation of 58 slots with at least 20 slots in each compute unit of type rack. Possible allocations are 58 slots in 1 rack or
29 slots in 2 racks.
Jobs submitted with balance requirements choose compute units based on the pref keyword secondarily, as shown in the following examples
where cu1 has 5 available slots and cu2 has 19 available slots.
bsub -n 5 -R "cu[balance:pref=minavail]"
Runs the job on compute unit cu1 where there are the fewest available slots.
bsub -n 5 -R "cu[balance:pref=maxavail]"
Runs the job on compute unit cu2 where there are the most available slots. In both cases the job is balanced over the fewest possible
compute units.
bsub -n 11,60 -R "cu[maxcus=2:type=enclosure]" -app resizable -ar myjob
An autoresizable job that spans the fewest possible compute units for a total allocation of at least 11 slots using at most 2 compute units of
type enclosure. If the autoresizable job grows, the entire job still uses at most 2 compute units of type enclosure.
566    IBM Spectrum LSF

bsub -n 64 -R "cu[balance:maxcus=4:type=enclosure]" -app resizable -ar myjob
An autoresizable job that spans the fewest possible compute units for a balanced allocation of 64 slots using 4 or less compute units of type
enclosure. If the autoresizable job grows, each subsequent allocation is a balanced allocation. The entire job (that is, the total of the initial and
subsequent job allocations) still uses at most 4 compute units of type enclosure, but the job as a whole might not be a balanced allocation.
bsub -n 64 -R "cu[excl:maxcus=8:usablecuslots=10]" -app resizable -ar myjob
An autoresizable job that allocates 64 slots over 8 or less compute units in groups of 10 or more slots per compute unit (with one compute
unit possibly using less than 10 slots). If the autoresizable job grows, each subsequent allocation allocates in groups of 10 or more slots per
compute unit (with one compute unit possible using less than 10 slots) and the entire job (that is, the total of the initial and subsequent job
allocations) still uses at most 8 compute units. Since each subsequent allocation might have one compute unit that uses less than 10 slots,
the entire job might have more than one compute unit that uses less than 10 slots. The default compute unit type set in
COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES is used, and are used exclusively by myjob.
CU string in application proﬁles
See Resource requirements for information about how resource requirements in application proﬁles are resolved with queue-level and job-level
resource requirements.
Afﬁnity string
An afﬁnity resource requirement string speciﬁes CPU and memory binding requirements for the tasks of jobs. An afﬁnity[] resource requirement
section controls CPU and memory resource allocations and speciﬁes the distribution of processor units within a host according to the hardware
topology information that LSF collects.
afﬁnity sections are accepted by bsub -R, and by bmod -R for non-running jobs, and can be speciﬁed in the RES_REQ parameter in lsb.applications
and lsb.queues.
Syntax
The afﬁnity string supports the following syntax:
afﬁnity[pu_type[*count] | [pu_type(pu_num[,pu_options])[*count]] [:cpubind=numa | socket | core | thread] [:membind=localonly | localprefer]
[:distribute=task_distribution]]
pu_type[*count] | [pu_type(pu_num[,pu_options])[*count]]
Requested processor unit for the job tasks are speciﬁed by pu_type, which indicates the type and number of processor units the tasks can run
on. Processor unit type can be one of numa, socket, core, or thread. pu_num speciﬁes the number of processor units for each task.
For compatibility with IBM LoadLeveller, options mcm and cpu are also supported. mcm is an alias for the numa processor unit type, and cpu
is an alias for the thread processor unit type.
For example, the following afﬁnity requirement requests 5 cores per task:
affinity[core(5)]
Further processor unit speciﬁcation is provided by pu_options, which have the following syntax:
same=level[,exclusive=(level[,scope])]
where:
same=level
Controls where processor units are allocated from. Processor unit level can be one of numa, socket, core, or thread. The level for same
must be higher than the speciﬁed processor unit type.
For example, the following requests 2 threads from the same core: affinity[thread(2,same=core)]
"exclusive=(level[,scope [| scope]])"
Constrains what level processor units can be allocated exclusively to a job or task. The level for exclusive can be one of numa, socket, or
core. The scope for exclusive can be one of the following, or a combination separated by a logical OR (|):
intask means that the allocated processor unit cannot be shared by different allocations in the same task.
injob means that the allocated processor unit cannot be shared by different tasks in the same job.
alljobs means that the allocated processor unit cannot be shared by different jobs. alljobs scope can only be used if
EXCLUSIVE=Yis conﬁgured in the queue.
For example, the following requests 2 threads for each task from the same core, exclusively to the socket. No other tasks in the same
job can run on the allocated socket (other jobs or tasks from other jobs can run on that socket):
affinity[thread(2,same=core,exclusive=(socket,injob))]
IBM Spectrum LSF 567

Note: EXCLUSIVE=Y or EXCLUSIVE=CU[cu_type] must be conﬁgured in the queue to enable afﬁnity jobs to use CPUs exclusively, when
the alljobs scope is speciﬁed in the exclusive option.
*count
Speciﬁes a multiple of processor unit requests. This is convenient for requesting the same processor unit allocation for a number of
tasks.
For example, the following afﬁnity request allocates 4 threads per task from 2 cores, 2 threads in each core. The cores must come from
different sockets:
affinity[thread(2,same=core,exclusive=(socket,intask))*2]
cpubind=numa | socket | core | thread
Speciﬁes the CPU binding policy for tasks. If the level of cpubind is the same as or lower than the speciﬁed processor unit type (pu_type), the
lowest processor unit is used. If the level of cpubind is higher than the requested processor type, the entire processor unit containing the
allocation is used for CPU binding.
For example:
affinity[core(2):cpubind=thread]
If the allocated cores are /0/0/0 and /0/0/1, the CPU binding list will contain all threads under /0/0/0 and /0/0/1.
affinity[core(2):cpubind=socket]
If the allocated cores are /0/0/0 and /0/0/1, the CPU binding list will contain all threads under the socket /0/0.
membind=localonly | localprefer
Speciﬁes the physical NUMA memory binding policy for tasks.
localonly limits the processes within the policy to allocate memory only from the local NUMA node. Memory is allocated if the available
memory is greater than or equal to the memory requested by the task.
localprefer speciﬁes that LSF should try to allocate physical memory from the local NUMA node ﬁrst. If this is not possible, LSF
allocates memory from a remote NUMA node. Memory is allocated if the available memory is greater than zero.
distribute=task_distribution
Speciﬁes how LSF distributes tasks of a submitted job on a host. Specify task_distribution according to the following syntax:
pack | pack(type=1)
LSF attempts to pack tasks in the same job on as few processor units as possible, in order to make processor units available for later
jobs with the same binding requirements.
pack(type=1) forces LSF to pack all tasks for the job into the processor unit speciﬁed by type, where type is one of numa, socket,
core, or thread. The difference between pack and pack(type=1) is that LSF will pend the job if pack(type=1) cannot be satisﬁed.
Use pack to allow your application to use memory locality.
For example, a job has the following afﬁnity requirements:
bsub -n 6 –R "span[hosts=1] affinity[core(1):distribute=pack]"
The job asks for 6 slots, running on an single host. Each slot maps to 1 core, and LSF tries to pack all 6 cores as close as possible on a
single NUMA or socket.
The following example packs all job tasks on a single NUMA node:
affinity[core(1,exclusive=(socket,injob)):distribute=pack(numa=1)]
In this allocation, each task needs 1 core and no other tasks from the same job can allocate CPUs from the same socket. All tasks are
packed in the same job on one NUMA node.
balance
LSF attempts to distribute job tasks equally across all processor units. Use balance to make as many processor units available to your
job as possible.
any
LSF attempts no job task placement optimization. LSF chooses the ﬁrst available processor units for task placement.
Examples
affinity[core(5,same=numa):cpubind=numa:membind=localonly]
Each task requests 5 cores in the same NUMA node and binds the tasks on the NUMA node with memory mandatory binding.
The following binds a multithread job on a single NUMA node:
affinity[core(3,same=numa):cpubind=numa:membind=localprefer]
568    IBM Spectrum LSF

The following distributes tasks across sockets:
affinity[core(2,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob|alljobs)): cpubind=socket]
Each task needs 2 cores from the same socket and binds each task at the socket level. The allocated socket is exclusive - no other tasks can use it.
Afﬁnity string in application proﬁles and queues
A job-level afﬁnity string section overwrites an application-level section, which overwrites a queue-level section (if a given level is present).
See Resource requirements for information about how resource requirements in application proﬁles are resolved with queue-level and job-level
resource requirements.
Specify GPU resource requirements for your jobs
Specify all GPU resource requirements as part of job submission, or in a queue or application proﬁle, or use the default GPU requirement
"num=1:mode=shared:mps=no:j_exclusive=no". Use the option bsub –gpu to submit jobs that require GPU resources. Specify how LSF manages
GPU mode (exclusive or shared), and whether to enable the NVIDIA Multi-Process Service (MPS) for the GPUs used by the job.
See information on specifying GPU resource requirements in GPU resources.
Reserving resources
About resource reservation
 When a job is dispatched, the system assumes that the resources that the job consumes will be reflected in the load information. However,
many jobs do not consume the resources that they require when they ﬁrst start. Instead, they will typically use the resources over a period of
time.
Use resource reservation
 Memory reservation for pending jobs
By default, the rusage string reserves resources for running jobs. Because resources are not reserved for pending jobs, some memory-
intensive jobs could be pending indeﬁnitely because smaller jobs take the resources immediately before the larger jobs can start running. The
more memory a job requires, the worse the problem is.
About resource reservation
When a job is dispatched, the system assumes that the resources that the job consumes will be reflected in the load information. However, many
jobs do not consume the resources that they require when they ﬁrst start. Instead, they will typically use the resources over a period of time.
For example, a job requiring 100 MB of swap is dispatched to a host having 150 MB of available swap. The job starts off initially allocating 5 MB and
gradually increases the amount consumed to 100 MB over a period of 30 minutes. During this period, another job requiring more than 50 MB of swap
should not be started on the same host to avoid over-committing the resource.
Resources can be reserved to prevent overcommitment by LSF. Resource reservation requirements can be speciﬁed as part of the resource
requirements when submitting a job, or can be conﬁgured into the queue level resource requirements.
Pending job resize allocation requests are not supported in slot reservation policies. Newly added or removed resources are reflected in the pending
job predicted start time calculation.
Resource reservation limits
Maximum and minimum values for consumable resource requirements can be set for individual queues, so jobs will only be accepted if they have
resource requirements within a speciﬁed range. This can be useful when queues are conﬁgured to run jobs with speciﬁc memory requirements, for
example. Jobs requesting more memory than the maximum limit for the queue will not be accepted, and will not take memory resources away from
the smaller memory jobs the queue is designed to run.
Resource reservation limits are set at the queue level by the parameter RESRSV_LIMIT in lsb.queues.
How resource reservation works
When deciding whether to schedule a job on a host, LSF considers the reserved resources of jobs that have previously started on that host. For each
load index, the amount reserved by all jobs on that host is summed up and subtracted (or added if the index is increasing) from the current value of
the resources as reported by the LIM to get amount available for scheduling new jobs:
IBM Spectrum LSF 569

available amount = current value - reserved amount for all jobs
For example:
bsub -R "rusage[tmp=30:duration=30:decay=1]" myjob
will reserve 30 MB of temp space for the job. As the job runs, the amount reserved will decrease at approximately 1 MB/minute such that the
reserved amount is 0 after 30 minutes.
Queue-level and job-level resource reservation
The queue level resource requirement parameter RES_REQ may also specify the resource reservation. If a queue reserves certain amount of a
resource (and the parameter RESRSV_LIMIT is not being used), you cannot reserve a greater amount of that resource at the job level.
For example, if the output of bqueues -l command contains:
RES_REQ: rusage[mem=40:swp=80:tmp=100]
the following submission will be rejected since the requested amount of certain resources exceeds queue's speciﬁcation:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=50:swp=100]" myjob
When both RES_REQ and RESRSV_LIMIT are set in lsb.queues for a consumable resource, the queue-level RES_REQ no longer acts as a hard limit for
the merged RES_REQ rusage values from the job and application levels. In this case only the limits set by RESRSV_LIMIT must be satisﬁed, and the
queue-level RES_REQ acts as a default value.
Use resource reservation
Queue-level resource reservation
At the queue level, resource reservation allows you to specify the amount of resources to reserve for jobs in the queue. It also serves as the upper
limits of resource reservation if a user also speciﬁes it when submitting a job.
Queue-level resource reservation and pending reasons
The use of RES_REQ affects the pending reasons as displayed by bjobs. If RES_REQ is speciﬁed in the queue and the loadSched thresholds are not
speciﬁed, then the pending reasons for each individual load index will not be displayed.
Conﬁguring resource reservation at the queue level
 Specifying job-level resource reservation
 Conﬁguring per-resource reservation
 
Conﬁguring resource reservation at the queue level
About this task
Queue-level resource reservations and resource reservation limits can be conﬁgured as parameters in lsb.queues.
Procedure
Specify the amount of resources a job should reserve after it is started in the resource usage (rusage) section of the resource requirement string of
the QUEUE section.
Examples
Begin Queue  
...  
RES_REQ = select[type==any] rusage[swp=100:mem=40:duration=60]  
RESRSV_LIMIT = [mem=30,100]  
...  
End Queue
This allows a job to be scheduled on any host that the queue is conﬁgured to use and reserves 100 MB of swap and 40 MB of memory for a duration
of 60 minutes. The requested memory reservation of 40 MB falls inside the allowed limits set by RESRSV_LIMIT of 30 MB to 100 MB.
570    IBM Spectrum LSF

Begin Queue  
... 
RES_REQ = select[type==any] rusage[mem=20||mem=10:swp=20]  
... 
End Queue
This allows a job to be scheduled on any host that the queue is conﬁgured to use. The job attempts to reserve 20 MB of memory, or 10 MB of memory
and 20 MB of swap if the 20 MB of memory is unavailable. In this case no limits are deﬁned by RESRSV_LIMIT.
Specifying job-level resource reservation
Procedure
To specify resource reservation at the job level, use bsub -R and include the resource usage section in the resource requirement string.
Conﬁguring per-resource reservation
Procedure
To enable greater flexibility for reserving numeric resources are reserved by jobs, conﬁgure the ReservationUsage section in lsb.resources to reserve
resources as PER_JOB, PER_TASK, or PER_HOST
Only user-deﬁned numeric resources can be reserved. Built-in resources such as mem, cpu, or swp cannot be conﬁgured in the ReservationUsage
section.
The cluster-wide RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK parameter still controls resources that are not conﬁgured in lsb.resources. Resources not
reserved in lsb.resources are reserved per job. Conﬁguration in lsb.resources overrides RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK if it also exists for the same
resource.
PER_HOST reservation means that for the parallel job, LSF reserves one instance of a for each host. For example, some applications are charged only
once no matter how many applications are running provided those applications are running on the same host under the same user.
Note: Conﬁguration PER_SLOT is obsolete as of LSF 9.1.3 and replaced by PER_TASK.
Assumptions and limitations
Per-resource conﬁguration deﬁnes resource usage for individual resources, but it does not change any existing resource limit behavior
(PER_JOB, PER_TASK).
In a MultiCluster environment, you should conﬁgure resource usage in the scheduling cluster (submission cluster in lease model or receiving
cluster in job forward model).
The keyword pref in the compute unit resource string is ignored, and the default conﬁguration order is used (pref=config).
Memory reservation for pending jobs
By default, the rusage string reserves resources for running jobs. Because resources are not reserved for pending jobs, some memory-intensive jobs
could be pending indeﬁnitely because smaller jobs take the resources immediately before the larger jobs can start running. The more memory a job
requires, the worse the problem is.
Memory reservation for pending jobs solves this problem by reserving memory as it becomes available until the total required memory speciﬁed on
the rusage string is accumulated and the job can start. Use memory reservation for pending jobs if memory-intensive jobs often compete for memory
with smaller jobs in your cluster.
Reserving host memory for pending jobs
 Enabling memory reservation for sequential jobs
 Conﬁguring lsb.queues
 Using memory reservation for pending jobs
 How memory reservation for pending jobs works
 
Reserving host memory for pending jobs
IBM Spectrum LSF 571

Procedure
Use the RESOURCE_RESERVE parameter in lsb.queues to reserve host memory for pending jobs.
The amount of memory reserved is based on the currently available memory when the job is pending. Reserved memory expires at the end of the
time period represented by the number of dispatch cycles speciﬁed by the value of MAX_RESERVE_TIME set on the RESOURCE_RESERVE
parameter.
Enabling memory reservation for sequential jobs
Procedure
Add the LSF scheduler plug-in module name for resource reservation (schmod_reserve) to the lsb.modules ﬁle:
Begin PluginModule  
SCH_PLUGIN                 RB_PLUGIN              SCH_DISABLE_PHASES   
schmod_default                ()                          ()   
schmod_reserve                ()                          ()   
schmod_preemption             ()                          ()   
End PluginModule
Conﬁguring lsb.queues
Procedure
Set the RESOURCE_RESERVE parameter in a queue deﬁned in lsb.queues.
If both RESOURCE_RESERVE and SLOT_RESERVE are deﬁned in the same queue, job slot reservation and memory reservation are both enabled and
an error is displayed when the cluster is reconﬁgured. SLOT_RESERVE is ignored.
Example queues
The following queue enables memory reservation for pending jobs:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = reservation  
DESCRIPTION = For resource reservation  
PRIORITY=40  
RESOURCE_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[20]  
End Queue
Using memory reservation for pending jobs
Procedure
Use the rusage string in the -R option to bsub or the RES_REQ parameter in lsb.queues to specify the amount of memory required for the job. Submit
the job to a queue with RESOURCE_RESERVE conﬁgured.
Note:
Compound resource requirements do not support use of the || operator within the component rusage simple resource requirements, multiple -R
options, or the cu section.
How memory reservation for pending jobs works
Amount of memory reserved
The amount of memory reserved is based on the currently available memory when the job is pending. For example, if LIM reports that a host has 300
MB of memory available, the job submitted by the following command:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=400]" -q reservation my_job
572    IBM Spectrum LSF

will be pending and reserve the 300 MB of available memory. As other jobs ﬁnish, the memory that becomes available is added to the reserved
memory until 400 MB accumulates, and the job starts.
No memory is reserved if no job slots are available for the job because the job could not run anyway, so reserving memory would waste the resource.
Only memory is accumulated while the job is pending; other resources speciﬁed on the rusage string are only reserved when the job is running.
Duration and decay have no effect on memory reservation while the job is pending.
How long memory is reserved (MAX_RESERVE_TIME)
Reserved memory expires at the end of the time period represented by the number of dispatch cycles speciﬁed by the value of MAX_RESERVE_TIME
set on the RESOURCE_RESERVE parameter. If a job has not accumulated enough memory to start by the time MAX_RESERVE_TIME expires, it
releases all its reserved memory so that other pending jobs can run. After the reservation time expires, the job cannot reserve slots or memory for
one scheduling session, so other jobs have a chance to be dispatched. After one scheduling session, the job can reserve available resources again for
another period that is speciﬁed by MAX_RESERVE_TIME.
Examples
lsb.queues
The following queues are deﬁned in lsb.queues:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = reservation  
DESCRIPTION = For resource reservation  
PRIORITY=40  
RESOURCE_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[20]  
End Queue 
Assumptions
Assume one host in the cluster with 10 CPUs and 1 GB of free memory currently available.
Sequential jobs
Each of the following sequential jobs requires 400 MB of memory and runs for 300 minutes.
Job 1:
bsub -W 300 -R "rusage[mem=400]" -q reservation myjob1 
The job starts running, using 400M of memory and one job slot.
Job 2:
Submitting a second job with same requirements yields the same result.
Job 3:
Submitting a third job with same requirements reserves one job slot, and reserves all free memory, if the amount of free memory is between 20 MB
and 200 MB (some free memory may be used by the operating system or other software.)
Limiting job resource allocations
Resource allocation limits conﬁgured in the lsb.resources ﬁle restrict the maximum amount of a resource requested by a job that can be allocated
during job scheduling for different classes of jobs to start. Conﬁgured limits also specify which resource consumers the limits apply to. Conﬁgure all
resource allocation limits in one or more Limit sections in the lsb.resources ﬁle.
How resource allocation limits work
 By default, resource consumers like users, hosts, queues, or projects are not limited in the resources available to them for running jobs.
How job limits work
 The JOBS parameter limits the maximum number of running or suspended jobs available to resource consumers. Limits are enforced
depending on the number of jobs in RUN, SSUSP, and USUSP state.
Conﬁguring resource allocation limits
 Conﬁgure all resource allocation limits in one or more Limit sections in the lsb.resources ﬁle. Limit sections set limits for how much of the
speciﬁed resources must be available for different classes of jobs to start, and which resource consumers the limits apply to.
Creating a limit using bconf
 
How resource allocation limits work
IBM Spectrum LSF 573

By default, resource consumers like users, hosts, queues, or projects are not limited in the resources available to them for running jobs.
Resource allocation limits conﬁgured in lsb.resources specify the following restrictions:
The maximum amount of a resource requested by a job that can be allocated during job scheduling for different classes of jobs to start
Which resource consumers the limits apply to
If all of the resource has been consumed, no more jobs can be started until some of the resource is released.
For example, by limiting maximum amount of memory for each of your hosts, you can make sure that your system operates at optimal performance.
By deﬁning a memory limit for some users submitting jobs to a particular queue and a speciﬁed set of hosts, you can prevent these users from using
up all the memory in the system at one time.
Jobs must specify resource requirements
For limits to apply, the job must specify resource requirements (bsub -R rusage string or the RES_REQ parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle). For
example, the a memory allocation limit of 4 MB is conﬁgured in lsb.resources:
Begin Limit 
NAME = mem_limit1 
MEM = 4 
End Limit 
A is job submitted with an rusage resource requirement that exceeds this limit:
bsub -R "rusage[mem=5]" uname 
and remains pending:
bjobs -p 600 
JOBID  USER   STAT  QUEUE   FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME        SUBMIT_TIME 
 600    user1  PEND  normal   suplin02                uname       Aug 12 14:05 
Resource (mem) limit defined cluster-wide has been reached; 
A job is submitted with a resource requirement within the conﬁgured limit:
bsub -R"rusage[mem=3]" sleep 100 
is allowed to run:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER   STAT  QUEUE   FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST  JOB_NAME      SUBMIT_TIME 
  600    user1   PEND  normal      hostA                uname      Aug 12 14:05 
  604    user1    RUN  normal      hostA            sleep 100      Aug 12 14:09 
Resource usage limits and resource allocation limits
Resource allocation limits are not the same as resource usage limits, which are enforced during job run time. For example, you set CPU limits,
memory limits, and other limits that take effect after a job starts running.
Resource reservation limits and resource allocation limits
Resource allocation limits are not the same as queue-based resource reservation limits, which are enforced during job submission. The parameter
RESRSV_LIMIT in the lsb.queues ﬁle speciﬁes allowed ranges of resource values, and jobs submitted with resource requests outside of this range are
rejected.
How LSF enforces limits
Resource allocation limits are enforced so that they apply to all jobs in the cluster according to the kind of resources, resource consumers, and
combinations of consumers.
All jobs in the cluster
Several kinds of resources:
Job slots by host
Job slots per processor
Running and suspended jobs
Memory (MB or percentage)
Swap space (MB or percentage)
Tmp space (MB or percentage)
Other shared resources
Several kinds of resource consumers:
Users and user groups (all users or per-user)
Hosts and host groups (all hosts or per-host)
Queues (all queues or per-queue)
574    IBM Spectrum LSF

Projects (all projects or per-project)
Combinations of consumers:
For jobs running on different hosts in the same queue
For jobs running from different queues on the same host
How LSF counts resources
Resources on a host are not available if they are taken by jobs that have been started, but have not yet ﬁnished. This means running and suspended
jobs count against the limits for queues, users, hosts, projects, and processors that they are associated with.
Job slot limits
Job slot limits can correspond to the maximum number of jobs that can run at any point in time. For example, a queue cannot start jobs if it has no
job slots available, and jobs cannot run on hosts that have no available job slots.
Limits such as QJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues), HJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues), UJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues), MXJ (lsb.hosts), JL/U (lsb.hosts), MAX_JOBS
(lsb.users), and MAX_PEND_SLOTS (lsb.users and lsb.params ) limit the number of job slots. When the workload is sequential, job slots are usually
equivalent to jobs. For parallel or distributed applications, these are true job slot limits and not job limits.
Job limits
Job limits, speciﬁed by JOBS in a Limit section in lsb.resources, correspond to the maximum number of running and suspended jobs that can run at
any point in time. MAX_PEND_JOBS (lsb.users and lsb.params) limit the number of pending jobs. If both job limits and job slot limits are conﬁgured,
the most restrictive limit is applied.
Resource reservation and backﬁll
When processor or memory reservation occurs, the reserved resources count against the limits for users, queues, hosts, projects, and processors.
When backﬁlling of parallel jobs occurs, the backﬁll jobs do not count against any limits.
IBM® Spectrum LSF multicluster capability
Limits apply only to the cluster where the lsb.resources ﬁle is conﬁgured. If the cluster leases hosts from another cluster, limits are enforced on
those hosts as if they were local hosts.
Switched jobs can exceed resource allocation limits
If a switched job (the bswitch command) has not been dispatched, then the job behaves as if it were submitted to the new queue in the ﬁrst place,
and the JOBS limit is enforced in the target queue.
If a switched job has been dispatched, then resource allocation limits like SWP. TMP. and JOBS can be exceeded in the target queue. For example,
given the following JOBS limit conﬁguration:
Begin Limit 
USERS     QUEUES      SLOTS   TMP    JOBS  
-         normal        -      20     2 
-         short         -      20     2 
End Limit 
Submit 3 jobs to the normal queue, and 3 jobs to the short queue:
bsub -q normal -R"rusage[tmp=20]" sleep 1000 
bsub -q short -R"rusage[tmp=20]" sleep 1000 
bjobs shows 1 job in RUN state in each queue:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
16      user1   RUN   normal     hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
17      user1   PEND  normal     hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
18      user1   PEND  normal     hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
19      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
20      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
21      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
blimits shows the TMP limit reached:
blimits 
INTERNAL RESOURCE LIMITS: 
NAME      USERS    QUEUES     SLOTS      TMP     JOBS 
NONAME000   -      normal       -      20/20      1/2 
NONAME001   -      short        -      20/20      1/2 
Switch the running job in the normal queue to the short queue:
bswitch short 16 
The bjobs command shows 2 jobs running in the short queue, and the second job running in the normal queue:
IBM Spectrum LSF 575

bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
17      user1   RUN   normal     hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
18      user1   PEND  normal     hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
19      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
16      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
20      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
21      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
The blimits command shows the TMP limit exceeded and the JOBS limit reached in the short queue:
blimits 
INTERNAL RESOURCE LIMITS: 
NAME    USERS    QUEUES     SLOTS      TMP     JOBS 
NONAME000   -    normal       -      20/20      1/2 
NONAME001   -    short        -      40/20      2/2 
Switch the running job in the normal queue to the short queue:
bswitch short 17 
The bjobs command shows 3 jobs running in the short queue and the third job running in the normal queue:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
18      user1   RUN   normal     hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
19      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
16      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
17      user1   RUN   short      hosta           hosta sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
20      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
21      user1   PEND  short      hosta                 sleep 1000  Aug 30 16:26 
The blimits command shows both TMP and JOBS limits exceeded in the short queue:
blimits 
INTERNAL RESOURCE LIMITS: 
NAME    USERS    QUEUES     SLOTS      TMP     JOBS 
NONAME000   -    normal       -      20/20      1/2 
NONAME001   -    short        -      60/20      3/2 
Limits for resource consumers
Resource allocaton limits are applied according to the kind of resource consumer (host groups, compute units, users, user groups
Host groups and compute units
If a limit is speciﬁed for a host group or compute unit, the total amount of a resource used by all hosts in that group or unit is counted. If a host is a
member of more than one group, each job running on that host is counted against the limit for all groups to which the host belongs. Per-user limits
are enforced on each user or individually to each user in the user group listed. If a user group contains a subgroup, the limit also applies to each
member in the subgroup recursively.
Limits for users and user groups
Jobs are normally queued on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served (FCFS) basis. It is possible for some users to abuse the system by submitting a large number
of jobs; jobs from other users must wait until these jobs complete. Limiting resources by user prevents users from monopolizing all the resources.
Users can submit an unlimited number of jobs, but if they have reached their limit for any resource, the rest of their jobs stay pending, until some of
their running jobs ﬁnish or resources become available.
If a limit is speciﬁed for a user group, the total amount of a resource used by all users in that group is counted. If a user is a member of more than
one group, each of that user’s jobs is counted against the limit for all groups to which that user belongs.
Use the keyword all to conﬁgure limits that apply to each user or user group in a cluster. This is useful if you have a large cluster but only want to
exclude a few users from the limit deﬁnition.
You can use ENFORCE_ONE_UG_LIMITS=Y combined with bsub -G to have better control over limits when user groups have overlapping members.
When set to Y, only the speciﬁed user group’s limits (or those of any parent user group) are enforced. If set to N, the most restrictive job limits of any
overlapping user/user group are enforced.
Per-user limits on users and groups
Per-user limits that use the keywords all apply to each user in a cluster. If user groups are conﬁgured, the limit applies to each member of the user
group, not the group as a whole.
Resizable jobs
When a resize allocation request is scheduled for a resizable job, all resource allocation limits (job and slot) are enforced.
576    IBM Spectrum LSF

Once the new allocation is satisﬁed, it consumes limits such as SLOTS, MEM, SWAP and TMP for queues, users, projects, hosts, or cluster-wide.
However, the new allocation will not consume job limits such as job group limits, job array limits, and non-host level JOBS limit.
Releasing part of an allocation from a resizable job frees general limits that belong to the allocation, but not the actual job limits.
How job limits work
The JOBS parameter limits the maximum number of running or suspended jobs available to resource consumers. Limits are enforced depending on
the number of jobs in RUN, SSUSP, and USUSP state.
Stop and resume jobs
Jobs stopped with bstop, go into USUSP status. LSF includes USUSP jobs in the count of running jobs, so the usage of JOBS limit will not change
when you suspend a job.
Resuming a stopped job (bresume) changes job status to SSUSP. The job can enter RUN state, if the JOBS limit has not been exceeded. Lowering the
JOBS limit before resuming the job can exceed the JOBS limit, and prevent SSUSP jobs from entering RUN state.
For example, JOBS=5, and 5 jobs are running in the cluster (JOBS has reached 5/5). Normally. the stopped job (in USUSP state) can later be resumed
and begin running, returning to RUN state. If you reconﬁgure the JOBS limit to 4 before resuming the job, the JOBS usage becomes 5/4, and the job
cannot run because the JOBS limit has been exceeded.
Preemption
The JOBS limit does not block preemption based on job slots. For example, if JOBS=2, and a host is already running 2 jobs in a preemptable queue, a
new preemptive job can preempt a job on that host as long as the preemptive slots can be satisﬁed even though the JOBS limit has been reached.
Reservation and backﬁll
Reservation and backﬁll are still made at the job slot level, but despite a slot reservation being satisﬁed, the job may ultimately not run because the
JOBS limit has been reached.
Other jobs
brun forces a pending job to run immediately on speciﬁed hosts. A job forced to run with brun is counted as a running job, which may violate
JOBS limits. After the forced job starts, the JOBS limits may be exceeded.
Re-queued jobs (brequeue) are assigned PEND status or PSUSP. Usage of JOBS limit is decreased by the number of re-queued jobs.
Checkpointed jobs restarted with brestart start a new job based on the checkpoint of an existing job. Whether the new job can run depends on
the limit policy (including the JOBS limit) that applies to the job. For example, if you checkpoint a job running on a host that has reached its
JOBS limit, then restart it, the restarted job cannot run because the JOBS limit has been reached.
For job arrays, you can deﬁne a maximum number of jobs that can run in the array at any given time. The JOBS limit, like other resource
allocation limits, works in combination with the array limits. For example, if JOBS=3 and the array limit is 4, at most 3 job elements can run in
the array.
For chunk jobs, only the running job among the jobs that are dispatched together in a chunk is counted against the JOBS limit. Jobs in WAIT
state do not affect the JOBS limit usage.
Example limit conﬁgurations
Each set of limits is deﬁned in a Limit section enclosed by Begin Limit and End Limit.
Example 1
user1 is limited to 2 job slots on hostA, and user2’s jobs on queue normal are limited to 20 MB of memory:
Begin Limit 
NAME    HOSTS     SLOTS  MEM   SWP  TMP   USERS       QUEUES 
Limit1  hostA     2      -      -    -    user1       - 
-       -         -      20     -    -    user2       normal 
End Limit
Example 2
Set a job slot limit of 2 for user user1 submitting jobs to queue normal on host hosta for all projects, but only one job slot for all queues and hosts
for project test:
Begin Limit 
HOSTS  SLOTS  PROJECTS   USERS     QUEUES 
hosta  2         -       user1     normal 
IBM Spectrum LSF 577

  -    1      test       user1       -    
End Limit
Example 3
All users in user group ugroup1 except user1 using queue1 and queue2 and running jobs on hosts in host group hgroup1 are limited to 2 job slots
per processor on each host:
Begin Limit 
NAME          = limit1 
# Resources: 
SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR = 2 
#Consumers: 
QUEUES       = queue1 queue2 
USERS        = ugroup1 ~user1 
PER_HOST     = hgroup1 
End Limit
Example 4
user1 and user2 can use all queues and all hosts in the cluster with a limit of 20 MB of available memory:
Begin Limit 
NAME  = 20_MB_mem  
# Resources: 
MEM   = 20 
# Consumers: 
USERS = user1 user2 
End Limit
Example 5
All users in user group ugroup1 can use queue1 and queue2 and run jobs on any host in host group hgroup1 sharing 10 job slots:
Begin Limit 
NAME   = 10_slot  
# Resources: 
SLOTS  = 10 
#Consumers: 
QUEUES = queue1 queue2 
USERS  = ugroup1 
HOSTS  = hgroup1 
End Limit
Example 6
All users in user group ugroup1 except user1 can use all queues but queue1 and run jobs with a limit of 10% of available memory on each host in
host group hgroup1:
Begin Limit 
NAME     = 10_percent_mem 
# Resources: 
MEM      = 10% 
QUEUES   = all ~queue1 
USERS    = ugroup1 ~user1 
PER_HOST = hgroup1 
End Limit
Example 7
Limit users in the develop group to 1 job on each host, and 50% of the memory on the host.
Begin Limit 
NAME = develop_group_limit 
# Resources: 
SLOTS = 1 
MEM = 50% 
#Consumers: 
USERS = develop 
PER_HOST = all 
End Limit
Example 8
Limit all hosts to 1 job slot per processor:
Begin Limit 
NAME                = default_limit 
SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR = 1 
PER_HOST            = all 
End Limit
Example 9
578    IBM Spectrum LSF

The short queue can have at most 200 running and suspended jobs:
Begin Limit 
NAME     = shortq_limit 
QUEUES   = short 
JOBS     = 200 
End Limit
Conﬁguring resource allocation limits
Conﬁgure all resource allocation limits in one or more Limit sections in the lsb.resources ﬁle. Limit sections set limits for how much of the speciﬁed
resources must be available for different classes of jobs to start, and which resource consumers the limits apply to.
lsb.resources ﬁle
You can also specify the duration for which the resource is reserved. When the duration expires, the resource is released, but the limitation is still
enforced. This behavior applies for all type of resources, including built-in resources, static, and dynamic shared resources, LSF License Scheduler
tokens. The resource requirements that are deﬁned for queue level or job level are the same in this case.
Note: The Limit section of the lsb.resources ﬁle does not support the keywords or format that is used in the lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues
ﬁles. However, any existing job slot limit conﬁguration in these ﬁles continues to apply.
Resource parameters
Limit Limit section parameter
Total number of running and suspended (RUN, SSUSP, USUSP) jobs. JOBS
Total number of job slots that can be used by speciﬁc jobs. SLOTS
Jobs slots based on the number of processors on each host that is affected by the limit. SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR and PER_HOST
Memory - if the PER_HOST parameter is set for the limit, the amount can be a percentage of
memory on each host in the limit.MEM (in MB or units set in the
LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle)
Swap space - if the PER_HOST parameter is set for the limit, the amount can be a
percentage of swap space on each host in the limit.SWP (in MB or units set in the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS
parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle)
Temp space - if the PER_HOST parameter is set for the limit, the amount can be a
percentage of temp space on each host in the limit.TMP (in MB or units set in the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS
parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle)
Any shared resource. RESOURCE
Number of jobs that are dispatched per scheduling cycle - the USERS, PER_USER, QUEUES,
or PER_QUEUE parameter must be set for the limit.JOB_DISPATCH_LIMIT
Note: By default, the tmp resource is not supported by the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter. Use the parameter LSF_ENABLE_TMP_UNIT=Y to
enable the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter to support limits on the tmp resource.
Consumer parameters
Submitted jobs Limit section parameter
By all speciﬁed users or user groups. USERS
To all speciﬁed queues. QUEUES
To all speciﬁed hosts, host groups, or compute units. HOSTS
For all speciﬁed projects. PROJECTS
By each speciﬁed user or each member of the speciﬁed user groups. PER_USER
To each speciﬁed queue. PER_QUEUE
To each speciﬁed host or each member of speciﬁed host groups or compute units.PER_HOST
For each speciﬁed project. PER_PROJECT
Enabling resource allocation limits
 Conﬁguring cluster-wide limits
 Limit conflicts
 How resource allocation limits map to slot limits earlier than LSF version 7
 Job slot limits are the only type of limit you can conﬁgure in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues. You cannot conﬁgure limits for user groups,
host groups, and projects in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues. You should not conﬁgure any new resource allocation limits in lsb.users,
lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues. Use lsb.resources to conﬁgure all new resource allocation limits, including job slot limits.
IBM Spectrum LSF 579

Enabling resource allocation limits
Procedure
To enable resource allocation limits in your cluster, you conﬁgure the resource allocation limits scheduling plugin schmod_limit in lsb.modules:
Begin PluginModule 
SCH_PLUGIN               RB_PLUGIN                SCH_DISABLE_PHASES 
schmod_default              ()                              () 
schmod_limit                ()                              () 
End PluginModule
Conﬁguring cluster-wide limits
Procedure
To conﬁgure limits that take effect for your entire cluster, conﬁgure limits in lsb.resources, but do not specify any consumers.
Limit conflicts
Similar conflicting limits
For similar limits conﬁgured in lsb.resources, lsb.users, lsb.hosts, or lsb.queues, the most restrictive limit is used. For example, a slot limit of 3 for all
users is conﬁgured in lsb.resources:
Begin Limit 
NAME  = user_limit1 
USERS = all 
SLOTS = 3 
End Limit
This is similar, but not equivalent to an existing MAX_JOBS limit of 2 is conﬁgured in lsb.users.
busers 
USER/GROUP    JL/P    MAX  NJOBS   PEND    RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV  
user1           -       2      4      2      2      0      0      0
user1 submits 4 jobs:
bjobs 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE     FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
816     user1   RUN   normal    hostA       hostA       sleep 1000 Jan 22 16:34 
817     user1   RUN   normal    hostA       hostA       sleep 1000 Jan 22 16:34 
818     user1   PEND  normal    hostA                   sleep 1000 Jan 22 16:34 
819     user1   PEND  normal    hostA                   sleep 1000 Jan 22 16:34
Two jobs (818 and 819) remain pending because the more restrictive limit of 2 from lsb.users is enforced:
bjobs -p 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST      JOB_NAME           SUBMIT_TIME 
818     user1   PEND  normal     hostA          sleep 1000         Jan 22 16:34 
The user has reached his/her job slot limit; 
819     user1   PEND  normal     hostA          sleep 1000         Jan 22 16:34 
The user has reached his/her job slot limit;
If the MAX_JOBS limit in lsb.users is 4:
busers 
USER/GROUP  JL/P   MAX  NJOBS   PEND   RUN  SSUSP  USUSP  RSV 
user1         -      4      4      1     3      0      0    0
and user1 submits 4 jobs:
bjobs 
JOBID  USER    STAT  QUEUE   FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST    JOB_NAME     SUBMIT_TIME 
824    user1   RUN   normal  hostA       hostA        sleep 1000   Jan 22 16:38 
825    user1   RUN   normal  hostA       hostA        sleep 1000   Jan 22 16:38 
826    user1   RUN   normal  hostA       hostA        sleep 1000   Jan 22 16:38 
827    user1   PEND  normal  hostA                    sleep 1000   Jan 22 16:38
580    IBM Spectrum LSF

Only one job (827) remains pending because the more restrictive limit of 3 in lsb.resources is enforced:
bjobs -p 
JOBID    USER    STAT  QUEUE   FROM_HOST       JOB_NAME           SUBMIT_TIME 
827     user1    PEND  normal      hostA     sleep 1000          Jan 22 16:38 
Resource (slot) limit defined cluster-wide has been reached;
Equivalent conflicting limits
New limits in lsb.resources that are equivalent to existing limits in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, or lsb.queues, but with a different value override the existing
limits. The equivalent limits in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, or lsb.queues are ignored, and the value of the new limit in lsb.resources is used.
For example, a per-user job slot limit in lsb.resources is equivalent to a MAX_JOBS limit in lsb.users, so only the lsb.resources limit is enforced, the
limit in lsb.users is ignored:
Begin Limit 
NAME  = slot_limit 
PER_USER =all 
SLOTS = 3 
End Limit
How resource allocation limits map to slot limits earlier than LSF version 7
Job slot limits are the only type of limit you can conﬁgure in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues. You cannot conﬁgure limits for user groups, host
groups, and projects in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues. You should not conﬁgure any new resource allocation limits in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and
lsb.queues. Use lsb.resources to conﬁgure all new resource allocation limits, including job slot limits.
Job slot resources Resource consumers (lsb.resources) Equivalent existing limit
(ﬁle) (lsb.resources) USERS PER_USER QUEUES HOSTS PER_HOST
SLOTS Not applicableall Not applicable host_name Not applicable JL/U (lsb.hosts)
SLOTS_PER_PROCESSO
Ruser_name Not applicable Not applicable Not applicableall JL/P (lsb.users)
SLOTS Not applicableall queue_name Not applicable Not applicable UJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues)
SLOTS Not applicableall Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable MAX_JOBS (lsb.users)
SLOTS Not applicable Not applicable queue_name Not applicableall HJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues)
SLOTS Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable host_name Not applicable MXJ (lsb.hosts)
SLOTS_PER_PROCESSO
RNot applicable Not applicable queue_name Not applicableall PJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues)
SLOTS Not applicable Not applicable queue_name Not applicable Not applicable QJOB_LIMIT (lsb.queues)
Limits for the following resources have no corresponding limit in lsb.users, lsb.hosts, and lsb.queues:
JOBS
RESOURCE
SWP
TMP
Creating a limit using bconf
About this task
You can create new limits using live reconﬁguration.
Procedure
Run bconf create limit=limit_name
For example, to create the limit X1 with a job limit of 23 per host:
bconf create limit=X1 "JOBS=23;PER_HOST=host12" 
bconf: Request for limit <X1> accepted
Once accepted by bconf, the new limit appears in blimits output:
blimits -cn X1 
Begin Limit 
IBM Spectrum LSF 581

 NAME          = X1 
 PER_HOST      = host12 
 JOBS          = 23 
End Limit
Results
Limits that are created using bconf create are written to the changed lsb.resources conﬁguration ﬁle in horizontal format.
Updating a limit using bconf
 
Updating a limit using bconf
Procedure
Run bconf update limit=limit_name. For example:
bconf update limit=Lim3 "JOBS=20; SLOTS=100"
Examples of changing a limit in two steps
Changing a limit using bconf might require two bconf calls if you have a dependent value or want to change from an integer to a percentage setting.
For example, given the limit L1 conﬁgured in lsb.resources, MEM is dependent on PER_HOST:
Begin Limit 
 NAME          = L1 
 PER_USER      = all 
 PER_QUEUE     = normal priority 
 PER_HOST      = all 
 MEM           = 40% 
End Limit
One bconf update call cannot reset both the PER_HOST value and dependent MEM percentage value:
bconf update limit=L1 "MEM=-;PER_HOST=-" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> rejected 
Error(s): PER_HOST cannot be replaced due to the dependent resource MEM
Instead, reset MEM and PER_HOST in two steps:
bconf update limit=L1 "MEM=-;" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> accepted 
bconf update limit=L1 "PER_HOST=-" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> accepted
Similarly, changing the value of SWP from a percentage to an integer requires two steps:
Begin Limit 
 NAME          = L1 
 ... 
 SWP = 40% 
End Limit
bconf update limit=L1 "SWP=20" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> rejected 
Error(s): Cannot change between integer and percentage directly; reset the resource first
First reset SWP and then set as an integer, calling bconf twice:
bconf update limit=L1 "SWP=-;" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> accepted 
bconf update limit=L1 "SWP=20" 
bconf: Request for limit <L1> accepted
Make sure LSF resources are distributed fairly
Use runtime resource usage limits to control how much resource can be consumed by running jobs. Conﬁgure load thresholds so that Jobs running
under LSF can be automatically suspended and resumed based on the load conditions on the execution hosts. Learn about dispatch and run windows
and deadline constraint scheduling.
Runtime resource usage limits
582    IBM Spectrum LSF

Load thresholds
Time conﬁguration
Learn about dispatch and run windows and deadline constraint scheduling.
Runtime resource usage limits
About resource usage limits
 Resource usage limits control how much resource can be consumed by running jobs. Jobs that use more than the speciﬁed amount of a
resource are signaled or have their priority lowered.
Changing the units for resource usage limits
 Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify larger units for resource usage limits.
Specifying resource usage limits
 Supported resource usage limits and syntax
 Set runtime resource usage limits in the lsb.queues ﬁle or with the bsub command. Each limit has a default value and a speciﬁc format.
Limit examples
 CPU time and run time normalization
 To set the CPU time limit and run time limit for jobs in a platform-independent way, LSF scales the limits by the CPU factor of the hosts
involved. When a job is dispatched to a host for execution, the limits are then normalized according to the CPU factor of the execution host.
Memory and swap limit enforcement based on Linux cgroup memory subsystem
 All LSF job processes are controlled by the Linux cgroup system so that cgroup memory and swap limits cannot be exceeded. These limits are
enforced on a per job and per host basis, not per task, on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6.2 or above and SuSe Linux Enterprise Linux 11
SP2 or above. LSF enforces memory and swap limits for jobs by periodically collecting job usage and comparing it with limits set by users. LSF
can impose strict host-level memory and swap limits on systems that support Linux cgroup v1 or cgroup v2 cgroups.
PAM resource limits
 PAM limits are system resource limits deﬁned in limits.conf.
About resource usage limits
Resource usage limits control how much resource can be consumed by running jobs. Jobs that use more than the speciﬁed amount of a resource are
signaled or have their priority lowered.
Limits can be speciﬁed by the LSF administrator:
At the queue level in lsb.queues
In an application proﬁle in lsb.applications
At the job level when you submit a job
For example, by deﬁning a high-priority short queue, you can allow short jobs to be scheduled earlier than long jobs. To prevent some users from
submitting long jobs to this short queue, you can set CPU limit for the queue so that no jobs submitted from the queue can run for longer than that
limit.
Limits speciﬁed at the queue level are hard limits, while those speciﬁed with job submission or in an application proﬁle are soft limits. The hard limit
acts as a ceiling for the soft limit. See setrlimit(2) man page for concepts of hard and soft limits.
Note: This chapter describes queue-level and job-level resource usage limits. Priority of limits is different if limits are also conﬁgured in an
application proﬁle.
Resource usage limits and resource allocation limits
Resource usage limits are not the same as resource allocation limits, which are enforced during job scheduling and before jobs are dispatched. You
set resource allocation limits to restrict the amount of a given resource that must be available during job scheduling for different classes of jobs to
start, and to which resource consumers the limits apply.
Resource usage limits and resource reservation limits
Resource usage limits are not the same as queue-based resource reservation limits, which are enforced during job submission. The parameter
RESRSV_LIMIT (in lsb.queues) speciﬁes allowed ranges of resource values, and jobs submitted with resource requests outside of this range are
rejected.
Summary of resource usage limits
Limit Job syntax (bsub)Syntax (lsb.queues and lsb.applications) Format/Default Units
Core ﬁle size limit -C core_limit CORELIMIT=limit integer KB
IBM Spectrum LSF 583

Limit Job syntax (bsub)Syntax (lsb.queues and lsb.applications) Format/Default Units
CPU time limit -c cpu_limit CPULIMIT=[default] maximum [hours:]minutes[/host_name | /host_model]
Data segment size limit-D data_limit DATALIMIT=[default] maximum integer KB
File size limit -F ﬁle_limit FILELIMIT=limit integer KB
Memory limit -M mem_limit MEMLIMIT=[default] maximum integer KB
Process limit -p process_limit PROCESSLIMIT=[default] maximum integer
Run time limit -W run_limit RUNLIMIT=[default] maximum [hours:]minutes[/host_name | /host_model]
Stack segment size limit-S stack_limit STACKLIMIT=limit integer KB
Virtual memory limit -v swap_limit SWAPLIMIT=limit integer KB
Thread limit -T thread_limit THREADLIMIT=[default] maximum integer
Priority of resource usage limits
If no limit is speciﬁed at job submission, then the following apply to all jobs submitted to the queue:
If ... Then ...
Both default and maximum limits are deﬁned The default is enforced
Only a maximum is deﬁned The maximum is enforced
No limit is speciﬁed in the queue or at job submissionNo limits are enforced
Incorrect resource usage limits
Incorrect limits are ignored, and a warning message is displayed when the cluster is reconﬁgured or restarted. A warning message is also logged to
the mbatchd log ﬁle when LSF is started.
If no limit is speciﬁed at job submission, then the following apply to all jobs submitted to the queue:
If ... Then ...
The default limit is not correct The default is ignored and the maximum limit is enforced
Both default and maximum limits are speciﬁed, and the maximum is
not correctThe maximum is ignored and the resource has no maximum limit, only a
default limit
Both default and maximum limits are not correct The default and maximum are ignored and no limit is enforced
Resource usage limits speciﬁed at job submission must be less than the maximum speciﬁed in lsb.queues. The job submission is rejected if the user-
speciﬁed limit is greater than the queue-level maximum, and the following message is issued:
Cannot exceed queue’s hard limit(s). Job not submitted.
Changing the units for resource usage limits
Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify larger units for resource usage limits.
The default unit for the following resource usage limits is KB:
Core limit (-C and CORELIMIT)
Memory limit (-M and MEMLIMIT)
Stack limit (-S and STACKLIMIT)
Swap limit (-v and SWAPLIMIT)
This default may be too small for environments that make use of very large resource usage limits, for example, GB, TB, or larger.
The unit for the resource usage limit can be one of:
KB or K (kilobytes)
MB or M (megabytes)
GB or G (gigabytes)
TB or T (terabytes)
PB or P (petabytes)
EB or E (exabytes)
ZB or Z (zettabytes)
The LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle applies cluster-wide to limits at the job-level (bsub command), queue-level (lsb.queues
ﬁle), and application level (lsb.applications ﬁle).
584    IBM Spectrum LSF

The limit unit speciﬁed by the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter also applies to limits modiﬁed with bmod, and the display of resource usage limits
in query commands (bacct, bapp, bhist, bhosts, bjobs, bqueues, lsload, and lshosts).
By default, the tmp resource is not supported by the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter. Use the parameter LSF_ENABLE_TMP_UNIT=Y to enable the
LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter to support limits on the tmp resource.
Important: Before you change the units of your resource usage limits, completely drain the cluster of all workload, so that no running, pending, or
ﬁnished jobs are in the system.
In the LSF multicluster capability environment, conﬁgure the same unit for all clusters.
After you change the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter, you must restart your cluster.
How changing the limit unit affects command options and output
When the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter is speciﬁed, the deﬁned unit is used for the following commands. In command output, the larger unit
appears as T, G, P, E, or Z, depending on the job rusage and the unit deﬁned.
Command Option or output Default unit
bsub/bmod -C (core limit) KB
-M (memory limit) KB
-S (stack limit) KB
-v (swap limit) KB
bjobs rusage
CORELIMIT, MEMLIMIT, STACKLIMIT, SWAPLIMITKB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
bqueues CORELIMIT, MEMLIMIT, STACKLIMIT, SWAPLIMITKB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
loadSched, loadStop MB
bacct Summary rusage KB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
bapp CORELIMIT, MEMLIMIT, STACKLIMIT, SWAPLIMITKB
bhist History of limit change by bmod KB
MEM, SWAP KB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
bhosts loadSched, loadStop MB
lsload mem, swp KB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
lshosts maxmem, maxswp KB (might show MB depending on job rusage)
Example
A job is submitted with bsub -M 100 and the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS=GB parameter is set. The memory limit for the job is 100 GB rather than the
default 100 MB.
Specifying resource usage limits
About this task
Queues can enforce resource usage limits on running jobs. LSF supports most of the limits that the underlying operating system supports. In
addition, LSF also supports a few limits that the underlying operating system does not support.
Procedure
Specify queue-level resource usage limits using parameters in lsb.queues.
Default run limits for backﬁll scheduling
 Specifying job-level resource usage limits
 
Specify queue-level resource usage limits
About this task
Limits conﬁgured in lsb.queues apply to all jobs submitted to the queue. Job-level resource usage limits speciﬁed at job submission override the
queue deﬁnitions.
Procedure
Specify only a maximum value for the resource.
IBM Spectrum LSF 585

For example, to specify a maximum run limit, use one value for the RUNLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues:
RUNLIMIT = 10
The maximum run limit for the queue is 10 minutes. Jobs cannot run for more than 10 minutes. Jobs in the RUN state for longer than 10 minutes are
killed by LSF.
If only one run limit is speciﬁed, jobs that are submitted with bsub -W with a run limit that exceeds the maximum run limit is not allowed to run. Jobs
submitted without bsub -W are allowed to run but are killed when they are in the RUN state for longer than the speciﬁed maximum run limit.
For example, in lsb.queues:
RUNLIMIT = 10
Default and maximum values
If you specify two limits, the ﬁrst one is the default limit for jobs in the queue and the second one is the maximum (hard) limit. Both the default and
the maximum limits must be positive integers. The default limit must be less than the maximum limit. The default limit is ignored if it is greater than
the maximum limit.
Use the default limit to avoid having to specify resource usage limits in the bsub command.
For example, to specify a default and a maximum run limit, use two values for the RUNLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues:
RUNLIMIT = 10 15
The ﬁrst number is the default run limit applied to all jobs in the queue that are submitted without a job-speciﬁc run limit (without bsub -W).
The second number is the maximum run limit applied to all jobs in the queue that are submitted with a job-speciﬁc run limit (with bsub -W).
The default run limit must be less than the maximum run limit.
You can specify both default and maximum values for the following resource usage limits in lsb.queues:
CPULIMIT
DATALIMIT
MEMLIMIT
PROCESSLIMIT
RUNLIMIT
THREADLIMIT
Host speciﬁcation with two limits
If default and maximum limits are speciﬁed for CPU time limits or run time limits, only one host speciﬁcation is permitted. For example, the following
CPU limits are correct (and have an identical effect):
CPULIMIT = 400/hostA 600 
CPULIMIT = 400 600/hostA
The following CPU limit is not correct:
CPULIMIT = 400/hostA 600/hostB
The following run limits are correct (and have an identical effect):
RUNLIMIT = 10/hostA 15 
RUNLIMIT = 10 15/hostA
The following run limit is not correct:
RUNLIMIT = 10/hostA 15/hostB
Default run limits for backﬁll scheduling
Default run limits are used for backﬁll scheduling of parallel jobs.
For example, in lsb.queues, you enter: RUNLIMIT = 10 15
The ﬁrst number is the default run limit applied to all jobs in the queue that are submitted without a job-speciﬁc run limit (without bsub -W).
The second number is the maximum run limit applied to all jobs in the queue that are submitted with a job-speciﬁc run limit (with bsub -W).
The default run limit cannot exceed the maximum run limit.
Automatically assigning a default run limit to all jobs in the queue means that backﬁll scheduling works efﬁciently.
If you submit a job to the queue with the -W option, (bsub-W 12 myjob) the maximum run limit is used. The job myjob is allowed to run on the
queue because the speciﬁed run limit (12) is less than the maximum run limit for the queue (15).
586    IBM Spectrum LSF

However, if the speciﬁed run limit is greater than the run limit for the queue (15) (for example, bsub-W 20 myjob), then the job will be rejected from
the queue.
Specifying job-level resource usage limits
Procedure
To specify resource usage limits at the job level, use one of the following bsub options:
-C core_limit
-c cpu_limit
-D data_limit
-F ﬁle_limit
-M mem_limit
-p process_limit
-W run_limit
-S stack_limit
-T thread_limit
-v swap_limit
Job-level resource usage limits speciﬁed at job submission override the queue deﬁnitions.
Supported resource usage limits and syntax
Set runtime resource usage limits in the lsb.queues ﬁle or with the bsub command. Each limit has a default value and a speciﬁc format.
CPU time limit
 Sets the soft CPU time limit to cpu_limit for this batch job. The default is no limit.
Data segment size limit
 Sets a per-process (soft) data segment size limit in KB for each process that belongs to this batch job (see getrlimit).
File size limit
 Sets a ﬁle size limit in KB for each process that belongs to this batch job.
Memory limit
 Sets a per-process physical memory limit for all of the processes belonging to a job.
Process limit
 Sets the limit of the number of processes to process_limit for the whole job. The default is no limit. Exceeding the limit causes the job to
terminate.
Runtime limit
 A runtime limit is the maximum amount of time a job can run before it is terminated.
Thread limit
 Sets the limit of the number of concurrent threads for the whole job. The default is no limit.
Stack segment size limit
 Sets a per-process (hard) stack segment size limit for all of the processes belonging to a job. Application-level and job-level stack segment
size limits overwrite this value as the soft limit, but cannot exceed the hard limit set in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
Swap usage limit
Sets a total process limit (memory and swap usage) for the whole job. The default is no limit. Exceeding the limit causes the job to terminate.
CPU time limit
Sets the soft CPU time limit to cpu_limit for this batch job. The default is no limit.
Job syntax (bsub)Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-c cpu_limit CPULIMIT=[default] maximum[hours:]minutes[/host_name | /host_model]
This option is useful for avoiding runaway jobs that use up too many resources. LSF keeps track of the CPU time used by all processes of the job.
When the job accumulates the speciﬁed amount of CPU time, a SIGXCPU signal is sent to all processes belonging to the job. If the job has no signal
handler for SIGXCPU, the job is killed immediately. If the SIGXCPU signal is handled, blocked, or ignored by the application, then after the grace
period expires, LSF sends SIGINT, SIGTERM, and SIGKILL signals to the job to kill it.
You can deﬁne whether the CPU limit is a per-process limit enforced by the OS or a per-job limit enforced by LSF with the LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT
parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
IBM Spectrum LSF 587

Jobs submitted to a chunk job queue are not chunked if the CPU limit is greater than 30 minutes.
cpu_limit is in the form [hour:]minute, where minute can be greater than 59. 3.5 hours can either be speciﬁed as 3:30 or 210.
Normalized CPU time
 The CPU time limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The CPU limit is scaled so that the job
does approximately the same amount of processing for a given CPU limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
Normalized CPU time
The CPU time limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The CPU limit is scaled so that the job does
approximately the same amount of processing for a given CPU limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
For example, if a job is submitted from a host with a CPU factor of 2 and executed on a host with a CPU factor of 3, the CPU time limit is multiplied by
2/3 because the execution host can do the same amount of work as the submission host in 2/3 of the time.
If the optional host name or host model is not given, the CPU limit is scaled based on the DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC value speciﬁed in the lsb.params ﬁle.
If the DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC parameter is not deﬁned, the fastest batch host in the cluster is used as the default. If host or host model is given, its
CPU scaling factor is used to adjust the actual CPU time limit at the execution host.
The following example speciﬁes that myjob can run for 10 minutes on a DEC3000 host, or the corresponding time on any other host:
bsub -c 10/DEC3000 myjob
Data segment size limit
Sets a per-process (soft) data segment size limit in KB for each process that belongs to this batch job (see getrlimit).
Job syntax (bsub) Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-D data_limit DATALIMIT=[default] maximuminteger KB
This option affects calls to sbrk() and brk() . An sbrk() or malloc() call to extend the data segment beyond the data limit returns an error.
Note: Linux does not use sbrk() and brk() within its calloc() and malloc(). Instead, it uses (mmap()) to create memory. The DATALIMIT value
cannot be enforced on Linux applications that call sbrk() and malloc().
On AIX, if the XPG_SUS_ENV=ON environment variable is set in the user's environment before the process is executed and a process attempts to set
the limit lower than current usage, the operation fails with errno set to EINVAL. If the XPG_SUS_ENV environment variable is not set, the operation
fails with errno set to EFAULT.
The default is no soft limit.
File size limit
Sets a ﬁle size limit in KB for each process that belongs to this batch job.
Job syntax (bsub)Queue syntax (lsb.queues)Format/Default Units
-F ﬁle_limit FILELIMIT=limit integer KB
If a per-process (soft) process of this job attempts to write to a ﬁle such that the ﬁle size would increase beyond the ﬁle limit, the kernel sends that
process a SIGXFSZ signal. This condition normally terminates the process, but may be caught. The default is no soft limit.
Memory limit
Sets a per-process physical memory limit for all of the processes belonging to a job.
Job syntax (bsub) Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-M mem_limit MEMLIMIT=[default] maximuminteger KB
By default, the limit is speciﬁed in KB. Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify a larger unit for the limit (MB, GB, TB,
PB, or EB).
588    IBM Spectrum LSF

If the LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE=Y or the LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=Y parameter is set in the lsf.conf ﬁle, LSF kills the job when it exceeds the memory
limit. Otherwise, LSF passes the memory limit to the operating system. Some operating systems apply the memory limit to each process, and some
do not enforce the memory limit at all.
LSF memory limit enforcement
 To enable LSF memory limit enforcement, set the LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to y.
Smart memory limit enforcement
 The parameter LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENF_CONTROL in the lsf.conf ﬁle further reﬁnes the behavior of enforcing a job memory limit.
OS memory limit enforcement
 OS enforcement usually allows the process to eventually run to completion. LSF passes mem_limit to the OS, which uses it as a guide for the
system scheduler and memory allocator.
LSF memory limit enforcement
To enable LSF memory limit enforcement, set the LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to y.
LSF memory limit enforcement explicitly sends a signal to kill a running process once it has allocated memory past mem_limit.
You can also enable LSF memory limit enforcement by setting the LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to y. The difference between
LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT set to y and LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE set to y is that with LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT, only the per-job memory limit enforced by
LSF is enabled. The per-process memory limit enforced by the OS is disabled. With the LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE parameter set to y, both the per-
job memory limit enforced by LSF and the per-process memory limit enforced by the OS are enabled.
The LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT parameter disables the per-process memory limit enforced by the OS and enables per-job memory limit enforced by LSF.
When the total memory allocated to all processes in the job exceeds the memory limit, LSF sends the following signals to kill the job: SIGINT ﬁrst,
then SIGTERM, then SIGKILL.
On UNIX, the time interval between SIGINT, SIGKILL, SIGTERM can be conﬁgured with the parameter JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL in the
lsb.params ﬁle.
Smart memory limit enforcement
The parameter LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENF_CONTROL in the lsf.conf ﬁle further reﬁnes the behavior of enforcing a job memory limit.
In the case that one or more jobs reach a speciﬁed memory limit (that is, both the host memory and swap utilization has reached a conﬁgurable
threshold) at execution time, the worst offending job will be killed. A job is selected as the worst offending job on that host if it has the most overuse
of memory (actual memory rusage minus memory limit of the job).
You also have the choice of killing all jobs exceeding the thresholds (not just the worst).
OS memory limit enforcement
OS enforcement usually allows the process to eventually run to completion. LSF passes mem_limit to the OS, which uses it as a guide for the system
scheduler and memory allocator.
The system might allocate more memory to a process if there is a surplus. When memory is low, the system takes memory from and lowers the
scheduling priority (re-nice) of a process that has exceeded its declared mem_limit.
OS memory limit enforcement is only available on systems that support RLIMIT_RSS for the setrlimit() function.
The following operating systems do not support the memory limit at the OS level:
Microsoft Windows
Sun Solaris 2.x
Process limit
Sets the limit of the number of processes to process_limit for the whole job. The default is no limit. Exceeding the limit causes the job to terminate.
Job syntax (bsub) Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-p process_limit PROCESSLIMIT=[default] maximuminteger
IBM Spectrum LSF 589

Limits the number of concurrent processes that can be part of a job.
If a default process limit is speciﬁed, jobs submitted to the queue without a job-level process limit are killed when the default process limit is
reached.
If you specify only one limit, it is the maximum, or hard, process limit. If you specify two limits, the ﬁrst one is the default, or soft, process limit, and
the second one is the maximum process limit.
Runtime limit
A runtime limit is the maximum amount of time a job can run before it is terminated.
Job syntax (bsub)Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-W run_limit RUNLIMIT=[default] maximum[hours:]minutes[ /host_name | /host_model]
It sets the run time limit of a job. The default is no limit. If the accumulated time the job has spent in the RUN state exceeds this limit, the job is sent
a USR2 signal. If the job does not terminate within 10 minutes after being sent this signal, it is killed.
With deadline constraint scheduling conﬁgured, a run limit also speciﬁes the amount of time a job is expected to take, and the minimum amount of
time that must be available before a job can be started.
run_limit is in the form [hour:]minute, where minute can be greater than 59. 3.5 hours can either be speciﬁed as 3:30 or 210.
Jobs submitted to a chunk job queue are not chunked if the run limit is greater than 30 minutes.
Normalized run time
 The runtime limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The run limit is scaled so that the job
has approximately the same run time for a given run limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
Runtime limits with the LSF multicluster capability
 The runtime limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The runtime limit is scaled so that the
job has approximately the same run time for a given run limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
Normalized run time
The runtime limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The run limit is scaled so that the job has
approximately the same run time for a given run limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
For example, if a job is submitted from a host with a CPU factor of 2 and executed on a host with a CPU factor of 3, the run limit is multiplied by 2/3
because the execution host can do the same amount of work as the submission host in 2/3 of the time.
If the optional host name or host model is not given, the run limit is scaled based on the DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC parameter speciﬁed in the lsb.params
ﬁle. (If the DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC parameter is not deﬁned, the fastest batch host in the cluster is used as the default.) If host or host model is given,
its CPU scaling factor is used to adjust the actual run limit at the execution host.
The following example speciﬁes that myjob can run for 10 minutes on a DEC3000 host, or the corresponding time on any other host:
bsub -W 10/DEC3000 myjob
If ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y is deﬁned in the lsb.params ﬁle, the runtime limit is not normalized by the host CPU factor. Absolute wall-clock run time is used
for all jobs submitted with a run limit.
Runtime limits with the LSF multicluster capability
The runtime limit is normalized according to the CPU factor of the submission host and execution host. The runtime limit is scaled so that the job has
approximately the same run time for a given run limit, even if it is sent to a host with a faster or slower CPU.
For LSF multicluster capability jobs, if no other CPU time normalization host is deﬁned and information about the submission host is not available,
LSF uses the host with the largest CPU factor (the fastest host in the cluster). The ABS_RUNLIMIT parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle is not supported
in either LSF multicluster capability model; run time limit is normalized by the CPU factor of the execution host.
Thread limit
590    IBM Spectrum LSF

Sets the limit of the number of concurrent threads for the whole job. The default is no limit.
Job syntax (bsub) Queue syntax (lsb.queues) Format/Default Units
-T thread_limit THREADLIMIT=[default] maximuminteger
Exceeding the limit causes the job to terminate. The system sends the following signals in sequence to all processes belongs to the job: SIGINT,
SIGTERM, and SIGKILL.
If a default thread limit is speciﬁed, jobs submitted to the queue without a job-level thread limit are killed when the default thread limit is reached.
If you specify only one limit, it is the maximum, or hard, thread limit. If you specify two limits, the ﬁrst one is the default, or soft, thread limit, and the
second one is the maximum thread limit.
Stack segment size limit
Sets a per-process (hard) stack segment size limit for all of the processes belonging to a job. Application-level and job-level stack segment size limits
overwrite this value as the soft limit, but cannot exceed the hard limit set in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
Job syntax (bsub)Queue syntax (lsb.queues)Format/Default Units
-S stack_limit STACKLIMIT=limit integer KB
By default, the limit is speciﬁed in KB. Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify a larger unit for the limit (MB, GB, TB,
PB, or EB).
An sbrk() call to extend the stack segment beyond the stack limit causes the process to be terminated. The default is no limit.
Swap usage limit
Sets a total process limit (memory and swap usage) for the whole job. The default is no limit. Exceeding the limit causes the job to terminate.
Job syntax (bsub)Queue syntax (lsb.queues)Format/Default Units
-v swap_limit SWAPLIMIT=limit integer KB
By default, the limit is speciﬁed in KB. Use the LSF_UNIT_FOR_LIMITS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle to specify a larger unit for the limit (MB, GB, TB,
PB, or EB).
This limit applies to the whole job, no matter how many processes the job may contain.
By default, LSF collects both memory and swap usage through PIM:
If the EGO_PIM_SWAP_REPORT=n parameter is set in the lsf.conf ﬁle (this is the default), swap usage is virtual memory (VSZ) of the entire job
process.
If the EGO_PIM_SWAP_REPORT=y parameter is set in the lsf.conf ﬁle, the resident set size (RSS) is subtracted from the virtual memory usage.
RSS is the portion of memory occupied by a process that is held in main memory. Swap usage is collected as the VSZ - RSS.
For example, if a job process allocates memory as follows,
malloc(p, 200MB);  
memset(p, 150MB); 
then bjobs -l shows SWAP as either 200 MB if EGO_PIM_SWAP_REPORT=n, or 50 MB if EGO_PIM_SWAP_REPORT=y.
From ps or top output, 200 MB is the virtual memory (VSZ) and 150 MB is the resident set size (RSS).
On Linux, if you check the output of Linux utility free or monitor the output of vmstat, there is actually no swap usage at all. In fact, the meaning of
swap usage in Linux is the physical space usage of the underlining swap device, which is usually a block device.
If memory enforcement through the Linux cgroup memory subsystem is enabled with the LSF_LINUX_CGROUP_ACCT=y parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle,
LSF uses the cgroup memory subsystem to collect memory and swap usage of all processes in a job.
For example, if you enable the LSF_LINUX_CGROUP_ACCT=y parameter, and run the same program,
malloc(p, 200MB);  
memset(p, 150MB); 
The bjobs -l command shows SWAP as the swap usage of all currently running processes in a job collected by the cgroup memory subsystem.
IBM Spectrum LSF 591

Limit examples
Queue-level limits
CPULIMIT = 20/hostA 15
The ﬁrst number is the default CPU limit. The second number is the maximum CPU limit.
However, the default CPU limit is ignored because it is a higher value than the maximum CPU limit.
CPULIMIT = 10/hostA
In this example, the lack of a second number speciﬁes that there is no default CPU limit. The speciﬁed number is considered as the default and
maximum CPU limit.
RUNLIMIT = 10/hostA 15
The ﬁrst number is the default run limit. The second number is the maximum run limit.
The ﬁrst number speciﬁes that the default run limit is to be used for jobs that are submitted without a speciﬁed run limit (without the -W option of
bsub).
RUNLIMIT = 10/hostA
No default run limit is speciﬁed. The speciﬁed number is considered as the default and maximum run limit.
THREADLIMIT=6
No default thread limit is speciﬁed. The value 6 is the default and maximum thread limit.
THREADLIMIT=6 8
The ﬁrst value (6) is the default thread limit. The second value (8) is the maximum thread limit.
Job-level limits
bsub -M 5000 myjob
Submits myjob with a memory limit of 5000 KB.
bsub -W 14 myjob
myjob is expected to run for 14 minutes. If the run limit speciﬁed with bsub -W exceeds the value for the queue, the job is rejected.
bsub -T 4 myjob
Submits myjob with a maximum number of concurrent threads of 4.
CPU time and run time normalization
To set the CPU time limit and run time limit for jobs in a platform-independent way, LSF scales the limits by the CPU factor of the hosts involved.
When a job is dispatched to a host for execution, the limits are then normalized according to the CPU factor of the execution host.
Whenever a normalized CPU time or run time is given, the actual time on the execution host is the speciﬁed time multiplied by the CPU factor of the
normalization host then divided by the CPU factor of the execution host.
If ABS_RUNLIMIT=Y is deﬁned in lsb.params or in lsb.applications for the application associated with your job, the run time limit and run time
estimate are not normalized by the host CPU factor. Absolute wall-clock run time is used for all jobs submitted with a run time limit or a run time
estimate.
Normalization host
If no host or host model is given with the CPU time or run time, LSF uses the default CPU time normalization host deﬁned at the queue level
(DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC in lsb.queues) if it has been conﬁgured, otherwise uses the default CPU time normalization host deﬁned at the cluster level
(DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC in lsb.params) if it has been conﬁgured, otherwise uses the submission host.
Example
CPULIMIT=10/hostA
592    IBM Spectrum LSF

If hostA has a CPU factor of 2, and hostB has a CPU factor of 1 (hostB is slower than hostA), this speciﬁes an actual time limit of 10 minutes on
hostA, or on any other host that has a CPU factor of 2. However, if hostB is the execution host, the actual time limit on hostB is 20 minutes (10 * 2 /
1).
Normalization hosts for default CPU and run time limits
The ﬁrst valid CPU factor encountered is used for both CPU limit and run time limit. To be valid, a host speciﬁcation must be a valid host name that is
a member of the LSF cluster. The CPU factor is used even if the speciﬁed limit is not valid.
If the CPU and run limit have different host speciﬁcations, the CPU limit host speciﬁcation is enforced.
If no host or host model is given with the CPU or run time limits, LSF determines the default normalization host according to the following priority:
1. DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC is conﬁgured in lsb.queues
2. DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC is conﬁgured in lsb.params
3. If DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC is not conﬁgured in lsb.queues or lsb.params, host with the largest CPU factor is used.
CPU time display (bacct, bhist, bqueues)
Normalized CPU time is displayed in the output of bqueues. CPU time is not normalized in the output if bacct and bhist.
Memory and swap limit enforcement based on Linux cgroup memory
subsystem
All LSF job processes are controlled by the Linux cgroup system so that cgroup memory and swap limits cannot be exceeded. These limits are
enforced on a per job and per host basis, not per task, on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6.2 or above and SuSe Linux Enterprise Linux 11 SP2 or
above. LSF enforces memory and swap limits for jobs by periodically collecting job usage and comparing it with limits set by users. LSF can impose
strict host-level memory and swap limits on systems that support Linux cgroup 
v1 or cgroup v2 cgroups.
Different LSF hosts in the cluster can use different versions of cgroup as long as each individual LSF host is only running one version of cgroup. If you
have both versions of cgroup enabled in a host, you must disable one of the versions. For example, hostA can use cgroup v1 and hostB can use 
cgroup v2 as long as each host is only running one version of cgroup.
To enable memory enforcement through the Linux cgroup memory subsystem, conﬁgure the LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" parameter in the
lsf.conf ﬁle.
If the host OS is Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.3 or above, cgroup memory limits are enforced, and LSF is notiﬁed to terminate the job. More notiﬁcation
is provided to users through speciﬁc termination reasons that are displayed by bhist –l.
To change (such as reduce) the cgroup memory limits for running jobs, use bmod -M to change a job's memory limit, and use bmod -v to change the
swap limit for a job. Note that when you request to change a job's memory or swap limits, LSF modiﬁes the job's requirement to accommodate your
request, and modiﬁes the job's cgroup limits setting. If the OS rejects the cgroup memory or swap limit modiﬁcations, LSF posts a message to the job
to indicate that the cgroup is not changed. After the cgroup limit changes, the OS can adjust the job's memory or swap allocation. As a best practice,
do not decrease the cgroup memory or swap limit to less than your application use.
If you enable memory or swap enforcement through the Linux cgroup memory subsystem after you upgrade an existing LSF cluster, make sure that
the following parameters are set in the lsf.conf ﬁle:
LSF_PROCESS_TRACKING=Y
LSF_LINUX_CGROUP_ACCT=Y
Setting LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" automatically turns on cgroup accounting (LSF_LINUX_CGROUP_ACCT=Y) to provide more accurate
memory and swap consumption data for memory and swap enforcement checking. Setting LSF_PROCESS_TRACKING=Y enables LSF to kill jobs
cleanly after memory and swap limits are exceeded.
Note: If LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" is conﬁgured, all existing LSF memory limit related parameters such as
LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS="TASK_MEMLIMIT", LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS="TASK_SWAPLIMIT", "LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT", and
"LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE" are ignored.
Example
Submit a parallel job with 3 tasks and a memory limit of 100 MB, with span[ptile=2] so that 2 tasks can run on one host and 1 task can run on another
host:
bsub -n 3 -M 100 –R "span[ptile=2]" blaunch ./mem_eater 
The application mem_eater keeps increasing the memory usage.
IBM Spectrum LSF 593

LSF kills the job at any point in time that it consumes more than 200 MB total memory on hosta or more than 100 MB total memory on hostb. For
example, if at any time 2 tasks run on hosta and 1 task runs on hostb, the job is killed only if total memory consumed by the 2 tasks on hosta
exceeds 200 MB on hosta or 100 MB in hostb.
LSF does not support per task memory enforcement for cgroups. For example, if one of the tasks on hosta consumes 150 MB memory and the other
task consumes only 10 MB, the job is not killed because, at that point in time, the total memory that is consumed by the job on hosta is only 160
MB.
Memory enforcement does not apply to accumulated memory usage. For example, two tasks consume a maximum 250 MB on hosta in total. The
maximum memory rusage of task1 on hosta is 150 MB and the maximum memory rusage of task2 on hosta is 100 MB, but this never happens at
the same time, so at any given time, the two tasks consumes less than 200M and this job is not killed. The job would be killed only if at a speciﬁc
point in time, the two tasks consume more than 200M on hosta.
Note: The cgroup memory subsystem does not separate enforcement of memory usage and swap usage. If a swap limit is speciﬁed, limit
enforcement differs from previous LSF behavior. bjobs -l shows SWAP as 0. This is correct since swap device usage is not collected separately from
memory usage.
For example, for the following job submission:
bsub -M 100  -v 50 ./mem_eater
After the application uses more than 100 MB of memory, the cgroup will start to use swap for the job process. The job is not killed until the
application reaches 150 MB memory usage (100 MB memory + 50 MB swap).
The following job speciﬁes only a swap limit:
bsub -v 50 ./mem_eater
Because no memory limit is speciﬁed, LSF considers the memory limit to be same as a swap limit. The job is killed when it reaches 50 MB combined
memory and swap usage.
Host-based memory and swap limit enforcement by Linux cgroups
When the LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" parameter is conﬁgured in the lsf.conf ﬁle, memory and swap limits are calculated and enforced as
a multiple of the number of tasks running on the execution host when memory and swap limits are speciﬁed for the job (at the job-level with -M and -
v, or in lsb.queues or lsb.applications with MEMLIMIT and SWAPLIMIT).
The bsub -hl option enables job-level host-based memory and swap limit enforcement regardless of the number of tasks running on the execution
host. The LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" parameter must be speciﬁed in lsf.conf for host-based memory and swap limit enforcement with
the -hl option to take effect.
If no memory or swap limit is speciﬁed for the job (the merged limit for the job, queue, and application proﬁle, if speciﬁed), or the
LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="memory" parameter is not speciﬁed, a host-based memory limit is not set for the job. The -hl option only applies only to
memory and swap limits; it does not apply to any other resource usage limits.
Limitations and known issues
For parallel jobs, cgroup limits are only enforced for jobs that are launched through the LSF blaunch framework. Parallel jobs that are
launched through LSF PAM/taskstarter are not supported.
On RHEL 6.2, LSF cannot receive notiﬁcation from the cgroup that memory and swap limits are exceeded. When job memory and swap limits
are exceeded, LSF cannot guarantee that the job is killed. On RHEL 6.3, LSF does receive notiﬁcation and kills the job.
On RHEL 6.2, a multithreaded application becomes a zombie process if the application is killed by cgroup due to memory enforcement. As a
result, LSF cannot wait for the user application exited status and LSF processes are hung. LSF recognizes the job does not exit and the job
always runs.
PAM resource limits
PAM limits are system resource limits deﬁned in limits.conf.
Windows: Not applicable
Linux: /etc/pam.d/lsf
When USE_PAM_CREDS is set to y or limits in the lsb.queues or lsb.applications ﬁle, applies PAM limits to an application or queue when its job is
dispatched to a Linux host using PAM. The job will fail if the execution host does not have PAM conﬁgured.
Conﬁguring a PAM ﬁle
 
Conﬁguring a PAM ﬁle
594    IBM Spectrum LSF

About this task
When USE_PAM_CREDS is set to y or limits in the lsb.queues or lsb.applications ﬁle, LSF can apply PAM limits to an application when its job is
dispatched to a Linux host using PAM LSF. The LSF job does not run within the PAM session. For these parameter settings, LSF assumes that the
Linux PAM service "lsf" is created.
When USE_PAM_CREDS is set to session in the lsb.queues or lsb.applications ﬁle, LSF opens a PAM session for the user and executes a RES
process into that session. The RES process executes the job task, then LSF disowns the process. This means that other LSF integrations are
automatically handled in the PAM session. For this parameter setting, LSF assumes that the Linux PAM service "lsf-<clustername>" is created.
You can also specify limits and sessions together (USE_PAM_CREDS=limits session). For this parameter setting, LSF assumes that the Linux PAM
services "lsf" and "lsf-<clustername>" are created.
If LSF limits are more restrictive than PAM limits, LSF limits are used, otherwise PAM limits are used. PAM limits are system resource limits deﬁned in
the limits.conf ﬁle.
The job sbatchd daemon checks the lsf service, and the job or task RES daemon checks the lsf-<clustername> service. The job will fail if the
execution host does not have PAM conﬁgured.
Procedure
1. Create a PAM conﬁguration ﬁle on each execution host you want.
/etc/pam.d/lsf
2. In the ﬁrst two lines, specify the authentication and authorization you need to successfully run PAM limits. For example:
auth required pam_localuser.so
account required pam_unix.so
3. Specify any resource limits. For example:
session required pam_limits.so
Results
For more information about conﬁguring a PAM ﬁle, check Linux documentation.
Load thresholds
Automatic job suspension
 Jobs running under LSF can be suspended based on the load conditions on the execution hosts. Each host and each queue can be conﬁgured
with a set of suspending conditions. If the load conditions on an execution host exceed either the corresponding host or queue suspending
conditions, one or more jobs running on that host are suspended to reduce the load.
Suspending conditions
 LSF provides different alternatives for conﬁguring suspending conditions. Suspending conditions are conﬁgured at the host level as load
thresholds, whereas suspending conditions are conﬁgured at the queue level as either load thresholds, or by using the STOP_COND parameter
in the lsb.queues ﬁle, or both.
Automatic job suspension
Jobs running under LSF can be suspended based on the load conditions on the execution hosts. Each host and each queue can be conﬁgured with a
set of suspending conditions. If the load conditions on an execution host exceed either the corresponding host or queue suspending conditions, one
or more jobs running on that host are suspended to reduce the load.
When LSF suspends a job, it invokes the SUSPEND action. The default SUSPEND action is to send the signal SIGSTOP.
By default, jobs are resumed when load levels fall below the suspending conditions. Each host and queue can be conﬁgured so that suspended
checkpointable or rerunnable jobs are automatically migrated to another host instead.
If no suspending threshold is conﬁgured for a load index, LSF does not check the value of that load index when deciding whether to suspend jobs.
Suspending thresholds can also be used to enforce inter-queue priorities. For example, if you conﬁgure a low-priority queue with an r1m (1 minute
CPU run queue length) scheduling threshold of 0.25 and an r1m suspending threshold of 1.75, this queue starts one job when the machine is idle. If
the job is CPU intensive, it increases the run queue length from 0.25 to roughly 1.25. A high-priority queue conﬁgured with a scheduling threshold of
1.5 and an unlimited suspending threshold sends a second job to the same host, increasing the run queue to 2.25. This exceeds the suspending
threshold for the low priority job, so it is stopped. The run queue length stays above 0.25 until the high priority job exits. After the high priority job
exits the run queue index drops back to the idle level, so the low priority job is resumed.
IBM Spectrum LSF 595

When jobs are running on a host, LSF periodically checks the load levels on that host. If any load index exceeds the corresponding per-host or per-
queue suspending threshold for a job, LSF suspends the job. The job remains suspended until the load levels satisfy the scheduling thresholds.
At regular intervals, LSF gets the load levels for that host. The period is deﬁned by the SBD_SLEEP_TIME parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. Then, for
each job running on the host, LSF compares the load levels against the host suspending conditions and the queue suspending conditions. If any
suspending condition at either the corresponding host or queue level is satisﬁed as a result of increased load, the job is suspended. A job is only
suspended if the load levels are too high for that particular job’s suspending thresholds.
There is a time delay between when LSF suspends a job and when the changes to host load are seen by the LIM. To allow time for load changes to
take effect, LSF suspends no more than one job at a time on each host.
Jobs from the lowest priority queue are checked ﬁrst. If two jobs are running on a host and the host is too busy, the lower priority job is suspended
and the higher priority job is allowed to continue. If the load levels are still too high on the next turn, the higher priority job is also suspended.
If a job is suspended because of its own load, the load drops as soon as the job is suspended. When the load goes back within the thresholds, the job
is resumed until it causes itself to be suspended again.
Exceptions
In some special cases, LSF does not automatically suspend jobs because of load levels. LSF does not suspend a job:
Forced to run with brun -f.
If it is the only job running on a host, unless the host is being used interactively. When only one job is running on a host, it is not suspended for
any reason except that the host is not interactively idle (the it interactive idle time load index is less than one minute). This means that once a
job is started on a host, at least one job continues to run unless there is an interactive user on the host. Once the job is suspended, it is not
resumed until all the scheduling conditions are met, so it should not interfere with the interactive user.
Because of the paging rate, unless the host is being used interactively. When a host has interactive users, LSF suspends jobs with high paging
rates, to improve the response time on the host for interactive users. When a host is idle, the pg (paging rate) load index is ignored. The
PG_SUSP_IT parameter in lsb.params controls this behavior. If the host has been idle for more than PG_SUSP_IT minutes, the pg load index is
not checked against the suspending threshold.
Suspending conditions
LSF provides different alternatives for conﬁguring suspending conditions. Suspending conditions are conﬁgured at the host level as load thresholds,
whereas suspending conditions are conﬁgured at the queue level as either load thresholds, or by using the STOP_COND parameter in the lsb.queues
ﬁle, or both.
The load indices most commonly used for suspending conditions are the CPU run queue lengths (r15s, r1m, and r15m), paging rate (pg), and idle
time (it). The (swp) and (tmp) indices are also considered for suspending jobs.
To give priority to interactive users, set the suspending threshold on the it (idle time) load index to a non-zero value. Jobs are stopped when any user
is active, and resumed when the host has been idle for the time given in the it scheduling condition.
To tune the suspending threshold for paging rate, it is desirable to know the behavior of your application. On an otherwise idle machine, check the
paging rate using lsload, and then start your application. Watch the paging rate as the application runs. By subtracting the active paging rate from the
idle paging rate, you get a number for the paging rate of your application. The suspending threshold should allow at least 1.5 times that amount. A
job can be scheduled at any paging rate up to the scheduling threshold, so the suspending threshold should be at least the scheduling threshold plus
1.5 times the application paging rate. This prevents the system from scheduling a job and then immediately suspending it because of its own paging.
The effective CPU run queue length condition should be conﬁgured like the paging rate. For CPU-intensive sequential jobs, the effective run queue
length indices increase by approximately one for each job. For jobs that use more than one process, you should make some test runs to determine
your job’s effect on the run queue length indices. Again, the suspending threshold should be equal to at least the scheduling threshold plus 1.5 times
the load for one job.
Re-sizable jobs
If new hosts are added for re-sizable jobs, LSF considers load threshold scheduling on those new hosts. If hosts are removed from allocation, LSF
does not apply load threshold scheduling for resizing the jobs.
Conﬁguring suspending conditions at queue level
 About resuming suspended jobs
 Jobs are suspended to prevent overloading hosts, to prevent batch jobs from interfering with interactive use, or to allow a more urgent job to
run. When the host is no longer overloaded, suspended jobs should continue running.
Specifying resume condition
 
Conﬁguring load thresholds at queue level
596    IBM Spectrum LSF

The queue deﬁnition (lsb.queues) can contain thresholds for 0 or more of the load indices. Any load index that does not have a conﬁgured threshold
has no effect on job scheduling.
Syntax
Each load index is conﬁgured on a separate line with the format:
load_index = loadSched/loadStop
Specify the name of the load index, for example r1m for the 1-minute CPU run queue length or pg for the paging rate. loadSched is the scheduling
threshold for this load index. loadStop is the suspending threshold. The loadSched condition must be satisﬁed by a host before a job is dispatched to
it and also before a job suspended on a host can be resumed. If the loadStop condition is satisﬁed, a job is suspended.
The loadSched and loadStop thresholds permit the speciﬁcation of conditions using simple AND/OR logic. For example, the speciﬁcation:
MEM=100/10 SWAP=200/30
translates into a loadSched condition of mem>=100 && swap>=200 and a loadStop condition of mem < 10 || swap < 30.
Theory
The r15s, r1m, and r15m CPU run queue length conditions are compared to the effective queue length as reported by lsload -E, which is
normalized for multiprocessor hosts. Thresholds for these parameters should be set at appropriate levels for single processor hosts.
Conﬁgure load thresholds consistently across queues. If a low priority queue has higher suspension thresholds than a high priority queue,
then jobs in the higher priority queue are suspended before jobs in the low priority queue.
Load thresholds at host level
A shared resource cannot be used as a load threshold in the Hosts section of the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle.
Conﬁguring suspending conditions at queue level
About this task
The condition for suspending a job can be speciﬁed using the queue-level STOP_COND parameter. It is deﬁned by a resource requirement string.
Only the select section of the resource requirement string is considered when stopping a job. All other sections are ignored.
This parameter provides similar but more flexible functionality for loadStop.
If loadStop thresholds have been speciﬁed, then a job is suspended if either the STOP_COND is TRUE or the loadStop thresholds are exceeded.
Procedure
Modify a queue to suspend a job based on a condition.
For example, suspend a job based on the idle time for desktop machines and availability of swap and memory on compute servers.
Assume cs is a Boolean resource deﬁned in the lsf.shared ﬁle and conﬁgured in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle to indicate that a host is a compute
server
Begin Queue 
. 
STOP_COND= select[((!cs && it < 5) || (cs && mem < 15 && swap < 50))] 
. 
End Queue
About resuming suspended jobs
Jobs are suspended to prevent overloading hosts, to prevent batch jobs from interfering with interactive use, or to allow a more urgent job to run.
When the host is no longer overloaded, suspended jobs should continue running.
When LSF automatically resumes a job, it invokes the RESUME action. The default action for RESUME is to send the signal SIGCONT.
If there are any suspended jobs on a host, LSF checks the load levels in each dispatch turn.
If the load levels are within the scheduling thresholds for the queue and the host, and all the resume conditions for the queue (RESUME_COND in
lsb.queues) are satisﬁed, the job is resumed.
IBM Spectrum LSF 597

If RESUME_COND is not deﬁned, then the loadSched thresholds are used to control resuming of jobs: all the loadSched thresholds must be satisﬁed
for the job to be resumed. The loadSched thresholds are ignored if RESUME_COND is deﬁned.
Jobs from higher priority queues are checked ﬁrst. To prevent overloading the host again, only one job is resumed in each dispatch turn.
Specifying resume condition
Procedure
Use RESUME_COND in lsb.queues to specify the condition that must be satisﬁed on a host if a suspended job is to be resumed.
Only the select section of the resource requirement string is considered when resuming a job. All other sections are ignored.
Time conﬁguration
Learn about dispatch and run windows and deadline constraint scheduling.
Dispatch and run windows are time windows that control when LSF jobs start and run. Deadline constraints suspend or terminate running jobs at a
certain time.
Note: Not all time windows take effect immediately. LSF might take some time to apply all time windows.
Time windows
 To specify a time window, specify two time values separated by a hyphen (-), with no space in between.
Time expressions
 Time expressions use time windows to specify when to change conﬁgurations.
Automatic time-based conﬁguration
 Variable conﬁguration is used to automatically change LSF conﬁguration based on time windows. It is supported in the following ﬁles:
Dispatch and run windows
 Both dispatch and run windows are time windows that control when LSF jobs start and run.
Deadline constraint scheduling
 Deadline constraints suspend or terminate running jobs at a certain time.
Time windows
To specify a time window, specify two time values separated by a hyphen (-), with no space in between.
time_window = begin_time-end_time
Time format
Times are speciﬁed in the format:
[day:]hour[:minute]
where all ﬁelds are numbers with the following ranges:
day of the week: 0-7 (0 and 7 are both Sunday)
hour: 0-23
minute: 0-59
Specify a time window one of the following ways:
hour-hour
hour:minute-hour:minute
day:hour:minute-day:hour:minute
The default value for minute is 0 (on the hour); the default value for day is every day of the week.
You must specify at least the hour. Day of the week and minute are optional. Both the start time and end time values must use the same syntax. If
you do not specify a minute, LSF assumes the ﬁrst minute of the hour (:00). If you do not specify a day, LSF assumes every day of the week. If you do
specify the day, you must also specify the minute.
Examples of time windows
598    IBM Spectrum LSF

Daily window
To specify a daily window omit the day ﬁeld from the time window. Use either the hour-hour or hour:minute-hour:minute format. For example, to
specify a daily 8:30AM to 6:30 PM window:
8:30-18:30
Overnight window
To specify an overnight window make time1 greater than time2. For example, to specify 6:30 PM to 8:30 AM the following day:
18:30-8:30
Weekend window
To specify a weekend window use the day ﬁeld. For example, to specify Friday at 6:30 PM to Monday at 8:30 AM:
5:18:30-1:8:30
Time expressions
Time expressions use time windows to specify when to change conﬁgurations.
Time expression syntax
A time expression is made up of the time keyword followed by one or more space-separated time windows enclosed in parentheses. Time
expressions can be combined using the &&, ||, and ! logical operators.
The syntax for a time expression is:
expression = time(time_window[ time_window ...]) 
              | expression && expression 
              | expression || expression  
              | !expression
Example
Both of the following expressions specify weekends (Friday evening at 6:30 PM until Monday morning at 8:30 AM) and nights (8:00 PM to 8:30 A
daily).
time(5:18:30-1:8:30 20:00-8:30) 
time(5:18:30-1:8:30) || time(20:00-8:30)
Automatic time-based conﬁguration
Variable conﬁguration is used to automatically change LSF conﬁguration based on time windows. It is supported in the following ﬁles:
lsb.hosts
lsb.params
lsb.queues
lsb.resources
lsb.users
lsf.licensescheduler
lsb.applications
You deﬁne automatic conﬁguration changes in conﬁguration ﬁles by using if-else constructs and time expressions. After you change the ﬁles,
reconﬁgure the cluster with the badmin reconﬁg command.
The expressions are evaluated by LSF every 10 minutes based on mbatchd start time. When an expression evaluates true, LSF dynamically changes
the conﬁguration based on the associated conﬁguration statements. Reconﬁguration is done in real time without restarting mbatchd, providing
continuous system availability.
In the following examples, the #if, #else, #endif are not interpreted as comments by LSF but as if-else constructs.
lsb.hosts example
Begin Host 
HOST_NAME   r15s   r1m   pg 
host1       3/5    3/5   12/20 
IBM Spectrum LSF 599

#if time(5:16:30-1:8:30 EDT 20:00-8:30 EDT) 
host2       3/5    3/5   12/20 
#else 
host2       2/3    2/3   10/12 
#endif 
host3       3/5    3/5   12/20 
End Host
lsb.params example
# if 18:30-19:30 is your short job express period, but  
# you want all jobs going to the short queue by default 
# and be subject to the thresholds of that queue 
# for all other hours, normal is the default queue 
#if time(18:30-19:30 EDT) 
DEFAULT_QUEUE=short 
#else 
DEFAULT_QUEUE=normal 
#endif
lsb.queues example
Begin Queue 
...  
#if time(8:30-18:30 EDT)    
INTERACTIVE  = ONLY  # interactive only during day shift #endif 
#endif 
...  
End Queue
lsb.users example
From 12 - 1 p.m. daily, user smith has 10 job slots, but during other hours, user has only ﬁve job slots.
Begin User 
USER_NAME  MAX_JOBS  JL/P 
#if time(12-13 EDT) 
smith      10         - 
#else 
smith       5         - 
default     1         - 
#endif 
End User
Create if-else constructs
The if-else construct can express single decisions and multi-way decisions by including elif statements in the construct.
If-else
The syntax for constructing if-else expressions is:
#if time(expression)statement#elsestatement#endif
The #endif part is mandatory and the #else part is optional.
elif
The #elif expressions are evaluated in order. If any expression is true, the associated statement is used, and this terminates the whole chain.
The #else part handles the default case where none of the other conditions are satisﬁed.
When you use #elif, the #else and #endif parts are mandatory.
#if time(expression) 
statement 
#elif time(expression) 
statement 
#elif time(expression) 
statement 
#else 
statement 
#endif
Dispatch and run windows
600    IBM Spectrum LSF

Both dispatch and run windows are time windows that control when LSF jobs start and run.
Dispatch windows can be deﬁned in lsb.hosts. Dispatch and run windows can be deﬁned in lsb.queues.
Hosts can only have dispatch windows. Queues can have dispatch windows and run windows.
Both windows affect job starting; only run windows affect the stopping of jobs.
Dispatch windows deﬁne when hosts and queues are active and inactive. It does not control job submission.
Run windows deﬁne when jobs can and cannot run. While a run window is closed, LSF cannot start any of the jobs placed in the queue, or
ﬁnish any of the jobs already running.
When a dispatch window closes, running jobs continue and ﬁnish, and no new jobs can be dispatched to the host or from the queue. When a
run window closes, LSF suspends running jobs, but new jobs can still be submitted to the queue.
Run windows
 Queues can be conﬁgured with a run window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs in the queue are allowed to run.
Once a run window is conﬁgured, jobs in the queue cannot run outside of the run window.
Dispatch windows
 Queues can be conﬁgured with a dispatch window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs are accepted. Hosts can be
conﬁgured with a dispatch window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs are allowed to start.
Run windows
Queues can be conﬁgured with a run window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs in the queue are allowed to run. Once a run
window is conﬁgured, jobs in the queue cannot run outside of the run window.
Jobs can be submitted to a queue at any time; if the run window is closed, the jobs remain pending until it opens again. If the run window is open,
jobs are placed and dispatched as usual. When an open run window closes, running jobs are suspended, and pending jobs remain pending. The
suspended jobs are resumed when the window opens again.
Conﬁguring run windows
 Viewing information about run windows
 
Conﬁguring run windows
Procedure
To conﬁgure a run window, set RUN_WINDOW in lsb.queues.
To use time zones, specify a supported time zone after the time window. If you do not specify a time zone, LSF uses the local system time zone. LSF
supports all standard time zone abbreviations.
To specify that the run window will be open from 4:30 a.m. to noon, specify the following:
RUN_WINDOW = 4:30-12:00 
To specify that the run window will be open from 4:30 a.m. to noon in Eastern Daylight Time, specify the following:
RUN_WINDOW = 4:30-12:00 EDT 
You can specify multiple time windows, but all time window entries must be consistent in whether they set the time zones. That is, either all entries
must set a time zone, or all entries must not set a time zone.
Viewing information about run windows
Procedure
Use bqueues -l to display information about queue run windows.
Dispatch windows
Queues can be conﬁgured with a dispatch window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs are accepted. Hosts can be
conﬁgured with a dispatch window, which speciﬁes one or more time periods during which jobs are allowed to start.
IBM Spectrum LSF 601

Once a dispatch window is conﬁgured, LSF cannot dispatch jobs outside of the window. By default, no dispatch windows are conﬁgured (the windows
are always open).
Dispatch windows have no effect on jobs that have already been dispatched to the execution host; jobs are allowed to run outside the dispatch
windows, as long as the queue run window is open.
Queue-level
Each queue can have a dispatch window. A queue can only dispatch jobs when the window is open.
You can submit jobs to a queue at any time; if the queue dispatch window is closed, the jobs remain pending in the queue until the dispatch window
opens again.
Host-level
Each host can have dispatch windows. A host is not eligible to accept jobs when its dispatch windows are closed.
Conﬁguring host dispatch windows
 Conﬁguring queue dispatch windows
 Displaying host dispatch windows
 Displaying queue dispatch windows
 
Conﬁguring host dispatch windows
Procedure
To conﬁgure dispatch windows for a host, set DISPATCH_WINDOW in lsb.hosts and specify one or more time windows. If no host dispatch window is
conﬁgured, the window is always open.
Conﬁguring queue dispatch windows
Procedure
To conﬁgure dispatch windows for queues, set DISPATCH_WINDOW in lsb.queues and specify one or more time windows. If no queue dispatch
window is conﬁgured, the window is always open.
Displaying host dispatch windows
Procedure
Use bhosts -l to display host dispatch windows.
Displaying queue dispatch windows
Procedure
Use bqueues -l to display queue dispatch windows.
Deadline constraint scheduling
Deadline constraints suspend or terminate running jobs at a certain time.
There are two kinds of deadline constraints:
A run window, speciﬁed at the queue level, suspends a running job
602    IBM Spectrum LSF

A termination time, speciﬁed at the job level (bsub -t), terminates a running job
Time-based resource usage limits
A CPU limit, speciﬁed at job or queue level, terminates a running job when it has used up a certain amount of CPU time.
A run limit, speciﬁed at the job or queue level, terminates a running job after it has spent a certain amount of time in the RUN state.
How deadline constraint scheduling works
If deadline constraint scheduling is enabled, LSF does not place a job that will be interrupted by a deadline constraint before its run limit expires, or
before its CPU limit expires, if the job has no run limit. In this case, deadline constraint scheduling could prevent a job from ever starting. If a job has
neither a run limit nor a CPU limit, deadline constraint scheduling has no effect.
A job that cannot start because of a deadline constraint causes an email to be sent to the job owner.
Deadline constraint scheduling only affects the placement of jobs. Once a job starts, if it is still running at the time of the deadline, it will be
suspended or terminated because of the deadline constraint or resource usage limit.
Re-sizable jobs
LSF considers both job termination time and queue run windows as part of deadline constraints. Since the job has already started, LSF does not
apply deadline constraint scheduling to job resize allocation requests.
Disabling deadline constraint scheduling
 
Disabling deadline constraint scheduling
About this task
Deadline constraint scheduling is enabled by default.
Procedure
To disable deadline constraint scheduling for a queue, set IGNORE_DEADLINE=y in lsb.queues.
Example
LSF schedules jobs in the liberal queue without observing the deadline constraints.
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = liberal  
IGNORE_DEADLINE=y  
End Queue
Preemptive scheduling
The preemptive scheduling feature allows a pending high-priority job to preempt a running job of lower priority. The lower-priority job is suspended
and is resumed as soon as possible. Use preemptive scheduling if you have long-running, low-priority jobs causing high-priority jobs to wait an
unacceptably long time.
Resource preemption
 About preemptive scheduling
 Conﬁguration to enable preemptive scheduling
 The preemptive scheduling feature is enabled by deﬁning at least one queue as preemptive or pre-emptable, using the PREEMPTION
parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle. Preemption does not actually occur until at least one queue is assigned a higher relative priority than another
queue, using the PRIORITY parameter, which is also set in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
Preemptive scheduling behavior
 Preemptive scheduling is based primarily on parameters speciﬁed at the queue level: some queues are eligible for preemption, others are not.
Once a hierarchy of queues has been established, other factors, such as queue priority and preferred preemption order, determine which jobs
from a queue should be preempted.
Conﬁguration to modify preemptive scheduling behavior
 There are conﬁguration parameters that modify various aspects of preemptive scheduling behavior.
Preemptive scheduling commands
IBM Spectrum LSF 603

Resource preemption
About resource preemption
 Requirements for resource preemption
 Resource preemption depends on many conditions:
Custom job controls for resource preemption
 Preempting resources
 Conﬁguring resource preemption
 Memory preemption
 
About resource preemption
Preemptive scheduling and resource preemption
Resource preemption is a special type of preemptive scheduling. It is similar to job slot preemption.
Job slot preemption and resource preemption
If you enable preemptive scheduling, job slot preemption is always enabled. Resource preemption is optional. With resource preemption, you can
conﬁgure preemptive scheduling that is based on other resources in addition to job slots.
Other Resources
Resource preemption works for any custom shared numeric resource (except increasing dynamic resources). To preempt on a host-based
resource, such as memory, you could conﬁgure a custom resource "shared" on only one host.
Multiple resource preemption
If multiple resources are required, LSF can preempt multiple jobs until sufﬁcient resources are available. For example, one or more jobs might be
preempted for a job that needs:
Multiple job slots
Multiple resources, such as a job slots and memory
More of a resource than can be obtained by preempting just one job
Use resource preemption
To allow your job to participate in resource preemption, you must use resource reservation to reserve the preemption resource (the cluster might be
conﬁgured so that this occurs automatically). For dynamic resources, you must specify a duration also.
Resource reservation is part of resource requirement, which can be speciﬁed at the job level or at the queue level or application level.
You can use a task ﬁle to associate speciﬁc resource requirements with speciﬁc applications.
Dynamic resources
Specify duration
If the preemption resource is dynamic, you must specify the duration part of the resource reservation string when you submit a preempting or
preemptable job.
Resources outside the control of LSF
If an ELIM is needed to determine the value of a dynamic resource, LSF preempts jobs as necessary, then waits for ELIM to report that the
resources are available before starting the high-priority job. By default, LSF waits 300 seconds (5 minutes) for resources to become available.
This time can be increased (PREEMPTION_WAIT_TIME in lsb.params).
If the preempted jobs do not release the resources, or the resources have been intercepted by a non-LSF user, the ELIM does not report any
more of the resource becoming available, and LSF might preempt more jobs to get the resources.
Requirements for resource preemption
Resource preemption depends on many conditions:
604    IBM Spectrum LSF

The preemption resources must be conﬁgured (PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES in lsb.params).
Jobs must reserve the correct amount of the preemption resource, using resource reservation (the rusage part of the resource requirement
string).
For dynamic preemption resources, jobs must specify the duration part of the resource reservation string.
Jobs that use the preemption resource must be spread out among multiple queues of different priority, and preemptive scheduling must be
conﬁgured so that preemption can occur among these queues (preemption can only occur if jobs are in different queues).
Only a releasable resource can be a preemption resource. LSF must be conﬁgured to release the preemption resource when the job is
suspended (RELEASE=Y in lsf.shared, which is the default). You must conﬁgure this no matter what your preemption action is.
LSF's preemption behavior must be modiﬁed. By default, LSF's default preemption action does not allow an application to release any
resources, except for job slots and static shared resources.
Custom job controls for resource preemption
Why you have to customize LSF
By default, LSF’s preemption action is to send a suspend signal (SIGSTOP) to stop the application. Some applications do not release resources when
they get SIGSTOP. If this happens, the preemption resource does not become available, and the preempting job is not successful.
You modify LSF’s default preemption behavior to make the application release the preemption resource when a job is preempted.
Customize the SUSPEND action
Ask your application vendor what job control signals or actions cause your application to suspend a job and release the preemption resources. You
need to replace the default SUSPEND action (the SIGSTOP signal) with another signal or script that works properly with your application when it
suspends the job. For example, your application might be able to catch SIGTSTP instead of SIGSTOP.
By default, LSF sends SIGCONT to resume suspended jobs. You should ﬁnd out if this causes your application to take back the resources when it
resumes the job. If not, you need to modify the RESUME action also.
Whatever changes you make to the SUSPEND job control affects all suspended jobs in the queue, including preempted jobs, jobs that are suspended
because of load thresholds, and jobs that you suspend using LSF commands. Similarly, changes made to the RESUME job control also affect the
whole queue.
Kill preempted jobs
If you want to use resource preemption, but cannot get your application to release or take back the resource, you can conﬁgure LSF to kill the low-
priority job instead of suspending it. This method is less efﬁcient because when you kill a job, you lose all the work, and you have to restart the job
from the beginning.
You can conﬁgure LSF to kill and requeue suspended jobs (use brequeue as the SUSPEND job control in lsb.queues). This kills all jobs that are
suspended in the queue, not just preempted jobs.
You can conﬁgure LSF to kill preempted jobs instead of suspending them (TERMINATE_WHEN=PREEMPT in lsb.queues). In this case, LSF does
not restart the preempted job, you have to resubmit it manually.
Preempting resources
About this task
To make resource preemption useful, you may need to work through all of these steps.
Procedure
1. Read.
Before you set up resource preemption, you should understand the following:
Preemptive Scheduling
Resource Preemption
Resource Reservation
Customizing Resources
Customizing Job Controls
2. Plan.
When you plan how to set up resource preemption, consider:
IBM Spectrum LSF 605

Custom job controls: Find out what signals or actions you can use with your application to control the preemption resource when you
suspend and resume jobs.
Existing cluster conﬁguration: Your design might be based on preemptive queues or custom resources that are already conﬁgured in
your cluster.
Requirements for resource preemption: Your design must be able to work. If a host-based resource such as memory is the preemption
resource, you cannot set up only one queue for each host because preemption occurs when 2 jobs are competing for the same
resource.
3. Write the ELIM.
4. Conﬁgure LSF.
a. lsb.queues
Set PREEMPTION in at least one queue (to PREEMPTIVE in a high-priority queue, or to PREEMPTABLE in a low-priority queue).
Set JOB_CONTROLS (or TERMINATE_WHEN) in the low-priority queues. Optional. Set RES_REQ to automatically reserve the
custom resource.
b. lsf.shared
Deﬁne the custom resource in the Resource section.
c. lsb.params
Set PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES and specify the custom resource.
Optional. Set PREEMPTION_WAIT_TIME to specify how many seconds to wait for dynamic resources to become available.
Optional. Set PREEMPT_JOBTYPE to enable preemption of exclusive and backﬁll jobs. Specify one or both of the keywords
EXCLUSIVE and BACKFILL. By default, exclusive and backﬁll jobs are only preempted if the exclusive low priority job is running
on a host that is different than the one used by the preemptive high priority job.
d. lsf.cluster.cluster_name
Deﬁne how the custom resource is shared in the ResourceMap section.
5. Reconﬁgure LSF to make your changes take effect.
6. Operate.
Use resource reservation to reserve the preemption resource (this might be conﬁgured to occur automatically). For dynamic resources,
you must specify a duration as well as a quantity.
Distribute jobs that use the preemption resource in way that allows preemption to occur between queues (this should happen as a
result of the cluster design).
7. Track.
Use bparams -l to view information about preemption conﬁguration in your cluster.
Conﬁguring resource preemption
Procedure
1. Conﬁgure preemptive scheduling (PREEMPTION in lsb.queues).
2. Conﬁgure the preemption resources (PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES in lsb.params).
Job slots are the default preemption resource. To deﬁne additional resources to use with preemptive scheduling, set
PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES in lsb.params, and specify the names of the custom resources as a space-separated list.
3. Customize the preemption action.
Preemptive scheduling uses the SUSPEND and RESUME job control actions to suspend and resume preempted jobs. For resource preemption,
it is critical that the preempted job releases the resource. You must modify LSF default job controls to make resource preemption work.
Suspend using a custom job control.
To modify the default suspend action, set JOB_CONTROLS in lsb.queues and use replace the SUSPEND job control with a script or a
signal that your application can catch. Do this for all queues where there could be preemptable jobs using the preemption resources.
For example, if your application vendor tells you to use the SIGTSTP signal, set JOB_CONTROLS in lsb.queues and use SIGTSTP as the
SUSPEND job control:
JOB_CONTROLS = SUSPEND [SIGTSTP] 
Kill jobs with brequeue.
To kill and requeue preempted jobs instead of suspending them, set JOB_CONTROLS in lsb.queues and use brequeue as the SUSPEND
job control:
JOB_CONTROLS = SUSPEND [brequeue $LSB_JOBID] 
Do this for all queues where there could be preemptable jobs using the preemption resources. This kills a preempted job, and then
requeues it so that it has a chance to run and ﬁnish successfully.
Kill jobs with TERMINATE_WHEN.
606    IBM Spectrum LSF

To kill preempted jobs instead of suspending them, set TERMINATE_WHEN in lsb.queues to PREEMPT. Do this for all queues where
there could be preemptable jobs using the preemption resources.
If you do this, the preempted job does not get to run unless you resubmit it.
4. Optional. Conﬁgure the preemption wait time.
To specify how long LSF waits for the ELIM to report that the resources are available, set PREEMPTION_WAIT_TIME in lsb.params and specify
the number of seconds to wait. You cannot specify any less than the default time (300 seconds).
For example, to make LSF wait for 8 minutes, specify
PREEMPTION_WAIT_TIME=480
Memory preemption
Conﬁgure memory preemption
By default, memory is not be preemptable. To enable memory preemption, specify the mem keyword in the value of the PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES
parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. LSF preempts on both slots and memory.
Jobs with rusage duration
Users are permitted to submit jobs with rusage duration on memory. However, rusage duration does not take effect on memory when memory
preemption is enabled. LSF continues to reserve memory for a job while it resides on a host.
OS memory behavior
When a job is suspended, it might continue to occupy physical memory. Unless there is another process on the host that can use the memory, the job
might not release memory. If LSF launches another job on the host that can use the memory, the OS can start swapping pages of the suspended job
out to disk. LSF does not look at swap space as a criterion for preemption.
When jobs exceed their memory requests
If a low priority job exceeds memory allocation on a host and a high priority job needs that memory allocation, you cannot get the memory allocation
back through preemption.
For example, suppose that a host has a total of 8 GB of memory. A low priority job is submitted, requesting 4 GB of memory. However, once the job
starts it uses all 8 GB of memory.
A high priority job is submitted that requests 8 GB of memory. LSF sees that there is no memory free on the host. The preemption module calculates
that 4 GB or memory can be obtained by preempting the low priority job. This is not sufﬁcient for the high priority job, so no preemption occurs.
About preemptive scheduling
Preemptive scheduling takes effect when two jobs compete for the same job slots. If a high-priority job is pending, LSF can suspend a lower-priority
job that is running, and then start the high-priority job instead. For this to happen, the high-priority job must be pending in a preemptive queue (a
queue that can preempt other queues), or the low-priority job must belong to a preemptable queue (a queue that can be preempted by other
queues).
If multiple slots are required, LSF can preempt multiple jobs until sufﬁcient slots are available. For example, one or more jobs can be preempted for a
job that needs multiple job slots.
A preempted job is resumed as soon as more job slots become available; it does not necessarily have to wait for the preempting job to ﬁnish.
Preemptive queue
Jobs in a preemptive queue can preempt jobs in any queue of lower priority, even if the lower-priority queues are not speciﬁed as
preemptable.
Preemptive queues are more aggressive at scheduling jobs because a slot that is not available to a low-priority queue may be available by
preemption to a high-priority queue.
Preemptable queue
Jobs in a preemptable queue can be preempted by jobs from any queue of a higher priority, even if the higher-priority queues are not speciﬁed
as preemptive.
IBM Spectrum LSF 607

When multiple preemptable jobs exist (low-priority jobs holding the required slots), and preemption occurs, LSF preempts a job from the
least-loaded host.
Re-sizable jobs
Resize allocation requests are not able take advantage of the queue-based preemption mechanism to preempt other jobs. However, regular pending
jobs are still able to preempt running re-sizable jobs, even while they have a resize request pending. When a re-sizable job is preempted and goes to
the SSUSP state, its resize request remains pending and LSF stops scheduling it until it returns back to RUN state.
New pending allocation requests cannot make use of preemption policy to get slots from other running or suspended jobs.
Once a resize decision has been made, LSF updates its job counters to be reflected in future preemption calculations. For instance, resizing a
running pre-emptable job from 2 slots to 4 slots, makes 4 pre-emptable slots for high priority pending jobs.
If a job is suspended, LSF stops allocating resources to a pending resize request.
When a preemption decision is made, if job has pending resize request and scheduler already has made an allocation decision for this request,
LSF cancels the allocation decision.
If a preemption decision is made while a job resize notiﬁcation command is running, LSF prevents the suspend signal from reaching the job.
Scope
By default, pre-emptive scheduling does not apply to jobs that have been forced to run (using brun) or backﬁll and exclusive jobs.
Limitations Description
Exclusive jobs Jobs requesting exclusive use of resources cannot preempt other jobs.
Jobs using resources exclusively cannot be preempted.
Backﬁll jobs Jobs backﬁlling future advance reservations cannot be preempted.
brun Jobs forced to run with the command brun cannot be preempted.
Default behavior (preemptive scheduling not enabled)
With preemptive scheduling enabled (preemptive queue)
With preemptive scheduling enabled (preemptable queue)
608    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration to enable preemptive scheduling
The preemptive scheduling feature is enabled by deﬁning at least one queue as preemptive or pre-emptable, using the PREEMPTION parameter in
the lsb.queues ﬁle. Preemption does not actually occur until at least one queue is assigned a higher relative priority than another queue, using the
PRIORITY parameter, which is also set in the lsb.queues ﬁle.
Both PREEMPTION and PRIORITY are used to determine which queues can preempt other queues, either by establishing relative priority of queues
or by speciﬁcally deﬁning preemptive properties for a queue.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxDefault behavior
lsb.queues PREEMPTION=PREE
MPTIVEEnables preemptive scheduling
Jobs in this queue can preempt jobs in any queue of lower priority, even if the lower-priority queue
is not speciﬁed as preemptable
PREEMPTION=PREE
MPTABLEEnables preemptive scheduling
Jobs in this queue can be preempted by jobs from any queue of higher priority, even if the higher-
priority queue is not speciﬁed as preemptive
PRIORITY=integer Sets the priority for this queue relative to all other queues
The larger the number, the higher the priority—a queue with PRIORITY=99 has a higher priority
than a queue with PRIORITY=1
Preemptive scheduling behavior
Preemptive scheduling is based primarily on parameters speciﬁed at the queue level: some queues are eligible for preemption, others are not. Once
a hierarchy of queues has been established, other factors, such as queue priority and preferred preemption order, determine which jobs from a
queue should be preempted.
There are three ways to establish which queues should be preempted:
Based on queue priority: the PREEMPTION parameter deﬁnes a queue as preemptive or pre-emptable and preemption is based on queue
priority, where jobs from higher-priority queues can preempt jobs from lower-priority queues
Based on a preferred order: the PREEMPTION parameter deﬁnes queues that can preempt other queues, in a preferred order
Explicitly, by speciﬁc queues: the PREEMPTION parameter deﬁnes queues that can be preempted, and by which queues
Preemption conﬁguration Behavior
Preemption is not enabled—no queue is deﬁned as preemptable, and no
queue is deﬁned as preemptiveHigh-priority jobs do not preempt jobs that are already running
A queue is deﬁned as preemptable, but no speciﬁc queues are listed that
can preempt itJobs from this queue can be preempted by jobs from any queue with a
higher value for priority
A queue is deﬁned as preemptable, and one or more queues are speciﬁed
that can preempt itJobs from this queue can be preempted only by jobs from the speciﬁed
queues
IBM Spectrum LSF 609

Preemption conﬁguration Behavior
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, but no speciﬁc queues are listed that it
can preemptJobs from this queue preempt jobs from all queues with a lower
value for priority
Jobs are preempted from the least-loaded host
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, and one or more speciﬁc queues are
listed that it can preempt, but no queue preference is speciﬁedJobs from this queue preempt jobs from any queue in the
speciﬁed list
Jobs are preempted on the least-loaded host ﬁrst
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, and one or more queues have a
preference number speciﬁed, indicating a preferred order of preemptionQueues with a preference number are preferred for preemption
over queues without a preference number
Queues with a higher preference number are preferred for
preemption over queues with a lower preference number
For queues that have the same preference number, the queue
with lowest priority is preferred for preemption over queues with
higher priority
For queues without a preference number, the queue with lower
priority is preferred for preemption over the queue with higher
priority
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, or a queue is deﬁned as preemptable,
and preemption of jobs with the shortest run time is conﬁguredA queue from which to preempt a job is determined based on
other parameters as shown above
The job that has been running for the shortest period of time is
preempted
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, or a queue is deﬁned as preemptable,
and preemption of jobs that will ﬁnish within a certain time period is
preventedA queue from which to preempt a job is determined based on
other parameters as shown above
A job that has a run limit or a run time speciﬁed and that will not
ﬁnish within the speciﬁed time period is preempted
A queue is deﬁned as preemptive, or a queue is deﬁned as preemptable,
and preemption of jobs with the speciﬁed run time is preventedA queue from which to preempt a job is determined based on
other parameters as shown above
The job that has been running for less than the speciﬁed period
of time is preempted
Case study: Three queues with varying priority
Consider the case where three queues are deﬁned as follows:
Queue A has the highest relative priority, with a value of 99
Queue B is both preemptive and preemptable, and has a relative priority of 10
Queue C has the lowest relative priority, with the default value of 1
The queues can preempt as follows:
A can preempt B because B is preemptable and B has a lower priority than A
B can preempt C because B is preemptive and C has a lower priority than B
A cannot preempt C, even though A has a higher priority than C, because A is not preemptive, nor is C preemptable
Calculation of job slots in use
The number of job slots in use determines whether preemptive jobs can start. The method in which the number of job slots in use is calculated can
be conﬁgured to ensure that a preemptive job can start. When a job is preempted, it is suspended. If the suspended job still counts towards the total
number of jobs allowed in the system, based on the limits imposed in the lsb.resources ﬁle, suspending the job may not be enough to allow the
preemptive job to run.
The PREEMPT_FOR parameter is used to change the calculation of job slot usage, ignoring suspended jobs in the calculation. This ensures that if a
limit is met, the preempting job can actually run.
Preemption
conﬁgurationEffect on the calculation of job slots used
Preemption is not
enabledJob slot limits are enforced based on the number of job slots taken by both running and suspended jobs.
Job slot limits speciﬁed at the queue level are enforced for both running and suspended jobs.
610    IBM Spectrum LSF

Preemption
conﬁgurationEffect on the calculation of job slots used
Preemption is
enabledThe total number of jobs at both the host and individual user level is not limited by the number of suspended jobs;
only running jobs are considered.
The number of running jobs never exceeds the job slot limits. If starting a preemptive job violates a job slot limit, a
lower-priority job is suspended to run the preemptive job. If, however, a job slot limit is still violated (that is, the
suspended job still counts in the calculation of job slots in use), the preemptive job still cannot start.
Job slot limits speciﬁed at the queue level are always enforced for both running and suspended jobs.
When preemptive scheduling is enabled, suspended jobs never count against the total job slot limit for individual
users.
Preemption is
enabled, and
PREEMPT_FOR=GR
OUP_JLPOnly running jobs are counted when calculating the per-processor job slots in use for a user group, and comparing the result
with the limit speciﬁed at the user level.
Preemption is
enabled, and
PREEMPT_FOR=GR
OUP_MAXOnly running jobs are counted when calculating the job slots in use for this user group, and comparing the result with the
limit speciﬁed at the user level.
Preemption is
enabled, and
PREEMPT_FOR=HO
ST_JLUOnly running jobs are counted when calculating the total job slots in use for a user group, and comparing the result with the
limit speciﬁed at the host level. Suspended jobs do not count against the limit for individual users.
Preemption is
enabled, and
PREEMPT_FOR=USE
R_JLPOnly running jobs are counted when calculating the per-processor job slots in use for an individual user, and comparing the
result with the limit speciﬁed at the user level.
Preemption of backﬁll jobs
When a high priority queue is conﬁgured to run a job with resource or slot reservations and backﬁll scheduling is enabled
(PREEMPT_JOBTYPE=BACKFILL in lsb.params), backﬁll jobs may use the reserved job slots. Conﬁguring a low priority queue with a job to preempt a
backﬁll job may delay the start of a job in a high priority queue with resource or slot reservations. LSF allows this conﬁguration but gives a warning
message.
The following example shows the resulting behavior with various queue conﬁgurations and priorities.
Queue name Conﬁguration Priority Result
queueR With a resource or slot
reservation80 Jobs in these queue reserve resources. If backﬁll scheduling is enabled, backﬁll jobs
with a deﬁned run limit can use the resources.
queueB As a preemptable
backﬁll queue50 Jobs in queueB with a deﬁned run limit use job slots reserved by jobs in queueR.
queueP As a preemptive queue75 Jobs in this queue do not necessarily have a run limit and may take resources from
jobs with reservation.
To guarantee a minimum run time for interruptible backﬁll jobs, LSF suspends them upon preemption. To change this behavior so that LSF terminates
interruptible backﬁll jobs upon preemption, you must deﬁne the parameter TERMINATE_WHEN=PREEMPT in lsb.queues.
Conﬁguration to modify preemptive scheduling behavior
There are conﬁguration parameters that modify various aspects of preemptive scheduling behavior.
Modifying the selection of the queue from which to preempt jobs
Modifying the selection of the job to preempt
Modifying preemption of backﬁll and exclusive jobs
Modifying the way job slot limits are calculated
Modifying the number of jobs to preempt for a parallel job
Modifying the control action applied to preempted jobs
Control how many times a job can be preempted
Specify a grace period before preemption to improve cluster performance
Conﬁguration to modify selection of queue to preempt
File Parameter Syntax and description
IBM Spectrum LSF 611

File Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.queues PREEMPTION PREEMPTION=PREEMPTIVE
[low_queue+pref …]
Jobs in the queue can preempt running jobs from the speciﬁed queues, starting with jobs in the queue
with the highest value set for preference
PREEMPTION=PREEMPTABLE 
[hi_queue …]
Jobs in this queue can be preempted by jobs from the speciﬁed queues
PRIORITY=integ
erSets the priority for this queue relative to all other queues
The higher the priority value, the more likely it is that jobs from this queue may preempt jobs from other
queues, and the less likely it is for jobs from this queue to be preempted by jobs from other queues
Conﬁguration to modify selection of job to preempt
Files Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.params
lsb.applicationsPREEMPT_FOR PREEMPT_FOR=LEAST_RUN_TIME
Preempts the job that has been running for the shortest time
NO_PREEMPT_R
UN_TIMENO_PREEMPT_RUN_TIME=%
Prevents preemption of jobs that have been running for the speciﬁed percentage of minutes, or longer
If NO_PREEMPT_RUN_TIME is speciﬁed as a percentage, the job cannot be preempted after running the
percentage of the job duration. For example, if the job run limit is 60 minutes and
NO_PREEMPT_RUN_TIME=50%, the job cannot be preempted after it running 30 minutes or longer.
If you specify percentage for
NO_PREEMPT_RUN_TIME, requires a run time (bsub -We or RUNTIME in lsb.applications),
or run limit to be speciﬁed for the job (bsub -W, or RUNLIMIT in lsb.queues, or RUNLIMIT in
lsb.applications)
NO_PREEMPT_F
INISH_TIMENO_PREEMPT_FINISH_TIME=%
Prevents preemption of jobs that will ﬁnish within the speciﬁed percentage of minutes.
If NO_PREEMPT_FINISH_TIME is speciﬁed as a percentage, the job cannot be preempted if the job
ﬁnishes within the percentage of the job duration. For example, if the job run limit is 60 minutes and
NO_PREEMPT_FINISH_TIME=10%, the job cannot be preempted after it running 54 minutes or longer.
If you specify percentage for NO_PREEMPT_RUN_TIME, requires a run time (bsub -We or RUNTIME in
lsb.applications), or run limit to be speciﬁed for the job (bsub -W, or RUNLIMIT in lsb.queues, or
RUNLIMIT in lsb.applications)
lsb.params
lsb.queues
lsb.applicationsMAX_TOTAL_TI
ME_PREEMPTMAX_TOTAL_TIME_PREEMPT=minutes
Prevents preemption of jobs that already have an accumulated preemption time of minutes or greater.
The accumulated preemption time is reset in the following cases:
Job status becomes EXIT or DONE
Job is re-queued
Job is re-run
Job is migrated and restarted
MAX_TOTAL_TIME_PREEMPT does not affect preemption triggered by advance reservation or License
Scheduler.
Accumulated preemption time does not include preemption by advance reservation or License
Scheduler.
NO_PREEMPT_I
NTERVALNO_PREEMPT_INTERVAL=minutes
Prevents preemption of jobs until after an uninterrupted run time interval of minutes since the job was
dispatched or last resumed.
NO_PREEMPT_INTERVAL does not affect preemption triggered by advance reservation or License
Scheduler.
Conﬁguration to modify preemption of backﬁll and exclusive jobs
612    IBM Spectrum LSF

File Parameter Syntax and description File Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.params PREEMPT_JOBT
YPEPREEMPT_JOBTYPE=BACKFILL
Enables preemption of backﬁll jobs.
Requires the line PREEMPTION=PREEMPTABLE in the queue deﬁnition.
Only jobs from queues with a higher priority than queues that deﬁne resource or slot reservations can
preempt jobs from backﬁll queues.
PREEMPT_JOBTYPE=EXCLUSIVE
Enables preemption of and preemption by exclusive jobs.
Requires the line PREEMPTION=PREEMPTABLE or PREEMPTION=PREEMPTIVE in the queue deﬁnition.
Requires the deﬁnition of LSB_DISABLE_LIMLOCK_EXCL in lsf.conf.
PREEMPT_JOBTYPE=EXCLUSIVE BACKFILL
Enables preemption of exclusive jobs, backﬁll jobs, or both.
lsf.conf LSB_DISABLE_L
IMLOCK_EXCLLSB_DISABLE_LIMLOCK_EXCL=y
Enables preemption of exclusive jobs.
For a host running an exclusive job:
lsload displays the host status ok.
bhosts displays the host status closed.
Users can run tasks on the host using lsrun or lsgrun. To prevent users from running tasks during
execution of an exclusive job, the parameter LSF_DISABLE_LSRUN=y must be deﬁned in lsf.conf.
Changing this parameter requires a restart of all sbatchds in the cluster (bctrld restart sbd). Do not
change this parameter while exclusive jobs are running.
Conﬁguration to modify how job slot usage is calculated
File Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.params PREEMPT_FOR PREEMPT_FOR=GROUP_JLP
Counts only running jobs when evaluating if a user group is approaching its per-processor job slot limit
(SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR, USERS, and PER_HOST=all in the lsb.resources ﬁle), ignoring suspended
jobs
PREEMPT_FOR=GROUP_MAX
Counts only running jobs when evaluating if a user group is approaching its total job slot limit (SLOTS,
PER_USER=all, and HOSTS in the lsb.resources ﬁle), ignoring suspended jobs
PREEMPT_FOR=HOST_JLU
Counts only running jobs when evaluating if a user or user group is approaching its per-host job slot
limit (SLOTS, PER_USER=all, and HOSTS in the lsb.resources ﬁle), ignoring suspended jobs
PREEMPT_FOR=USER_JLP
Counts only running jobs when evaluating if a user is approaching their per-processor job slot limit
(SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR, USERS, and PER_HOST=all in the lsb.resources ﬁle)
Ignores suspended jobs when calculating the per-processor job slot limit for individual users
Conﬁguration to modify preemption of parallel jobs
File Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.params PREEMPT_FOR PREEMPT_FOR=MINI_JOB
Optimizes preemption of parallel jobs by preempting only enough low-priority parallel jobs to start the
high-priority parallel job
PREEMPT_FOR=OPTIMAL_MINI_JOB
Optimizes preemption of parallel jobs by preempting only low-priority parallel jobs based on the least
number of jobs that will be suspended to allow the high-priority parallel job to start
IBM Spectrum LSF 613

Conﬁguration to modify the control action applied to preempted jobs
File Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.queues TERMINATE_WHE
NTERMINATE_WHEN=PREEMPT
Changes the default control action of SUSPEND to TERMINATE so that LSF terminates preempted
jobs
Conﬁguration to control how many times a job can be preempted
By default, if preemption is enabled, there is actually no guarantee that a job will ever actually complete. A lower priority job could be preempted
again and again, and ultimately end up being killed due to a run limit.
Limiting the number of times a job can be preempted is conﬁgured cluster-wide (lsb.params), at the queue level (lsb.queues), and at the application
level (lsb.applications). MAX_JOB_PREEMPT in lsb.applications overrides lsb.queues, and lsb.queues overrides lsb.params conﬁguration.
Files Parameter Syntax and description
lsb.params
lsb.queues
lsb.applicationsMAX_JOB_PREEMPTMAX_JOB_PREEMPT=integer
Speciﬁes the maximum number of times a job can be preempted.
Specify a value within the following ranges:
0 < MAX_JOB_PREEMPT < INFINIT_INT
INFINIT_INT is deﬁned in lsf.h
By default, the number of preemption times is unlimited.
When MAX_JOB_ PREEMPT is set, and a job is preempted by higher priority job, the number of job preemption times is set to 1. When the number of
preemption times exceeds MAX_JOB_ PREEMPT, the job will run to completion and cannot be preempted again.
The job preemption limit times is recovered when LSF is restarted or reconﬁgured.
If brequeue or bmig is invoked under a job suspend control (SUSPEND_CONTROL in lsb.applications or JOB_CONTROLS in lsb.queues), the job will
be requeued or migrated and the preempted counter reset to 0. To prevent the preempted counter from resetting to 0 under job suspend control, set
MAX_JOB_PREEMPT_RESET in lsb.params to N. LSF will not reset the preempted count for MAX_JOB_PREEMPT when the started job is requeued,
migrated or rerun.
Conﬁguration of a grace period before preemption
For details, see PREEMPT_DELAY in the ﬁle conﬁguration reference.
Files Parameter Syntax and description
(in order of
precedence:)
lsb.applications
lsb.queues
lsb.paramsPREEMPT_DELA
YPREEMPT_DELAY=seconds
Speciﬁes the number seconds for a preemptive job in the pending state to wait before a lower-
priority job can be preempted.
By default, the preemption is immediate.
Preemptive scheduling commands
Commands for submission
Command Description
bsub -q queue_name Submits the job to the speciﬁed queue, which may have a run limit that is associated with it
bsub -W minutes Submits the job with the speciﬁed run limit, in minutes
bsub -app application_proﬁle_nameSubmits the job to the speciﬁed application proﬁle, which may have a run limit that is associated with it
Commands to monitor
614    IBM Spectrum LSF

Command Description
bjobs -s Displays suspended jobs, together with the reason the job was suspended
Commands to control
Command Description
brun Forces a pending job to run immediately on speciﬁed hosts. For an exclusive job, when LSB_DISABLE_LIMLOCK_EXCL=y, LSF
allows other jobs already running on the host to ﬁnish but does not dispatch any additional jobs to that host until the exclusive
job ﬁnishes.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
bqueues Displays the priority (PRIO) and run limit (RUNLIMIT) for the queue, and whether the queue is conﬁgured to be preemptive,
preemptable, or both
bhosts Displays the number of job slots per user for a host
Displays the number of job slots available
bparams Displays the value of parameters deﬁned in lsb.params.
badmin
showconfDisplays all conﬁgured parameters and their values set in lsf.conf or ego.conf that affect mbatchd and sbatchd.
Use a text editor to view other parameters in the lsf.conf or ego.conf conﬁguration ﬁles.
In a multicluster environment, displays the parameters of daemons on the local cluster.
Global resources
Global resources are resources that are shared between all connected clusters.
You can conﬁgure global resources to be either static or dynamic. Dynamic global resources use a global resource ELIM (called GRES) to dynamically
collect global resources.
LSF handles global resources in the same way as local resources. For resource requirement strings, specify global resources for simple, compound,
and alternative resource requirement strings in the same way as local resources. In addition, specify global resources for the rusage, select, span,
same, cu, order, duration, and decay keywords in the resource requirement in the same way as local resources.
Global resources cannot have the same name as a local resource in the global policy daemon (GPD) cluster and local limits do not apply to global
resources.
Global resource collection
 LSF collects information for static global resources from the conﬁguration in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle, and collects information for dynamic
global resources from the global resource collection daemon (called GRES).
Conﬁguring global resources
 Deﬁne global resources in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle.
Using and displaying global resources
 Specify global resources in the same way as local resources. Use the bgpinfo command to display information on global resources.
Global resource collection
LSF collects information for static global resources from the conﬁguration in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle, and collects information for dynamic global
resources from the global resource collection daemon (called GRES).
The global resource collection daemon is named gres, but has the same syntax and usage as the local ELIMs. The management GRES is the MGRES.
The preﬁx for a GRES executable ﬁle is gres., for example gres.myscript.
The gres and mgres executable ﬁles are in the $LSF_SERVERDIR directory in the GPD cluster. The gpolicyd daemon starts, controls, and collects
dynamic global resource information from the MGRES. The MGRES and GRES instances only start up in the GPD cluster.
Conﬁguring global resources
IBM Spectrum LSF 615

Deﬁne global resources in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle to deﬁne your global resources.
2. Use the Resource section to deﬁne your global resources.
The syntax for global resources is the same as the syntax specifying local resources (that is, the Resource section of the lsf.shared ﬁle), with
some restrictions.
a. Specify a name, resource type, and description for the resource using the RESOURCENAME, TYPE, and DESCRIPTION keywords.
RESOURCENAME
Resource names are case sensitive and can be up to 39 characters in length, with the following restrictions:
Cannot begin with a number
Cannot contain the following special characters
:  .  (  )  [  +  - *  /  !  &  | <  >  @  = , 
Cannot be any of the following reserved names:
cpu cpuf io logins ls idle maxmem maxswp maxtmp type model  
status it mem ncpus nprocs ncores nthreads 
define_ncpus_cores define_ncpus_procs define_ncpus_threads 
ndisks pg r15m r15s r1m swap swp tmp ut local 
dchost jobvm 
Cannot begin with inf or nan (uppercase or lowercase). Use infxx or nanxxinstead if required.
For Solaris machines, the keyword int is reserved and cannot be used.
If the global resource has the same name as a local resource in the global policy daemon (GPD) cluster, LSF ignores the global
resources and logs a warning message.
TYPE
For global resources, the resource type must be Numeric.
DESCRIPTION
The information here describes the meaning of the resource.
b. Optional. Specify optional attributes for the resource.
INTERVAL
For dynamic resources, set the update interval in seconds.
INCREASING
Set to Y to indicate that a higher value indicates a greater load, or set to N to indicate that a higher value indicates a lower load.
CONSUMABLE
Set to Y since all global resources are numeric resources.
RELEASE
Set to Y since all global resources are numeric resources.
The following example speciﬁes a global static resource and two global dynamic resources:
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME           TYPE    INTERVAL INCREASING CONSUMABLE RELEASE DESCRIPTION  # Keywords 
global_res_static      Numeric  ()        N          Y        Y       (Global static resources) 
global_res_dynamic     Numeric  60        N          Y        Y       (Global dynamic resources) 
global_res_dynamic2    Numeric  30        N          Y        Y       (Global dynamic resources) 
End Resource 
3. Use the ResourceMap section to deﬁne the mapping between the global resources and their sharing clusters.
The ResourceMap section speciﬁes the global resources that are shared to all clusters. For static resources, you must also deﬁne an initial
value for the resource.
RESOURCENAME
Specify the name of the resource. This resource must have a corresponding entry in the Resource section.
LOCATION
[resource_value@][all]
For a static resource, specify an initial value and the at symbol (@). Do not specify an initial value for a dynamic resource. Specify [all]
to share the global resource with all connected clusters.
The following example shares the global resources with all connected clusters, and speciﬁes an initial value of 5 for the static resource.
Begin ResourceMap  
RESOURCENAME        LOCATION  
global_res_static   (5@[all])  
global_res_dynamic  ([all]) 
global_res_dynamic2 ([all])   
End ResourceMap
616    IBM Spectrum LSF

4. Use the DistributePolicy sections to deﬁne the distribution policy for the global resources and the global limits.
All clusters must use the same policy for global resources and the same policy for global limits.
NAME
Specify the name of the distribution policy. This name is any ASCII string that is 40 characters or less. You can use letters, digits,
underscores (_) or dashes (-). You cannot use blank spaces.
DISTRIBUTE
To distribute global resources, specify resource. To distribute global limits, specify limit.
POLICY
Specify evenly for LSF to divide global resources evenly among all the connected clusters.
The default policy is compete, which has each connected cluster compete to use the global resource. Under the compete distribution
policy, each cluster can get all the available amount of global resources during each scheduling cycle. LSF reverts the allocation if there
is any conflicts for different clusters. This policy might have negative effects on the scheduling efﬁciency if there are several conflicts,
but has better performance than the evenly policy under most circumstances.
The following example enables LSF to use the evenly distribution policy for both global resources and global limits.
Begin DistributePolicy 
NAME=Resource_Even_Policy 
DISTRIBUTE=resource 
POLICY=evenly 
End DistributePolicy
Begin DistributePolicy 
NAME=Limit_Even_Policy 
DISTRIBUTE=limit 
POLICY=evenly 
End DistributePolicy
5. Use the ReservationUsage section to specify the global resources to reserve and to deﬁne the method of resource reservation.
RESOURCE
Specify the name of the resource. This resource must have a corresponding entry in the Resource section.
METHOD
Specify the resource reservation method: PER_JOB, PER_TASK, or PER_HOST.
RESERVE
Reserves the resource for pending jobs that are waiting for another resource to become available.
The following example speciﬁes the three resources, each with a different resource reservation method.
Begin ReservationUsage  
RESOURCE             METHOD        RESERVE 
global_res_static    PER_HOST      N 
global_res_dynamic   PER_TASK      Y 
global_res_dynamic2  PER_JOB       N 
End ReservationUsage
Using and displaying global resources
Specify global resources in the same way as local resources. Use the bgpinfo command to display information on global resources.
Procedure
1. For resource requirement strings, specify global resources for simple, compound, and alternative resource requirement strings in the same
way as local resources.
Specify global resources for the rusage, select, span, same, cu, order, duration, and decay keywords in the resource requirement in the
same way as local resources. Global resources can be static or dynamic resources, but must be numeric, consumable, and releasable.
For example, if the resource reservation method of the global_res_dynamic resource is deﬁned as a PER_TASK in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle:
Begin ReservationUsage  
RESOURCE             METHOD        RESERVE 
global_res_dynamic   PER_TASK      Y 
End ReservationUsage
The following example reserves the global_res_dynamic resource for all 4 job tasks instead of only 1 on the host where the job runs:
bsub -n 4 -R "global_res_dynamic > 0 rusage[my_resource=1]" myjob
2. Use the bgpinfo command to display information on global resources.
a. Use the bgpinfo resource subcommand to display the following information on global resources: resource usage, resource type, and
reservation type.
b. Use the bgpinfo policy subcommand to display the distribution policies for global resources and global limits.
3. Use the bhosts -s command option to display global resources (and other shared numeric resources) that are on the hosts.
IBM Spectrum LSF 617