Administering IBM Spectrum LSF parallel workload
Learn how to submit, monitor, and control parallel workload in your LSF cluster. Conﬁgure scheduling policies that reserve resources to enable
efﬁcient execution of large parallel jobs.
Running parallel jobs
 LSF provides a generic interface to parallel programming packages so that any parallel package can be supported by writing shell scripts or
wrapper programs.
Advance reservation
 Advance reservations ensure access to speciﬁc hosts or slots during speciﬁed times. During the time that an advance reservation is active only
users or groups associated with the reservation have access to start new jobs on the reserved hosts or slots.
Fair share scheduling
 fair share scheduling divides the processing power of the LSF cluster among users and queues to provide fair access to resources, so that no
user or queue can monopolize the resources of the cluster and no queue will be starved.
Job checkpoint and restart
 Optimize resource usage with job checkpoint and restart to stop jobs and then restart them from the point at which they stopped.
Job migration for checkpoint-able and re-runnable jobs
 Use job migration to move checkpoint-able and re-runnable jobs from one host to another. Job migration makes use of job checkpoint and
restart so that a migrated checkpoint-able job restarts on the new host from the point at which the job stopped on the original host.
Re-sizable jobs
 Re-sizable jobs can use the number of tasks that are available at any time and can grow or shrink during the job run time by requesting extra
tasks if required or release tasks that are no longer needed.
Running parallel jobs
LSF provides a generic interface to parallel programming packages so that any parallel package can be supported by writing shell scripts or wrapper
programs.
How LSF runs parallel jobs
 When LSF runs a job, the LSB_HOSTS variable is set to the names of the hosts running the batch job. For a parallel batch job, LSB_HOSTS
contains the complete list of hosts that LSF has allocated to that job.
Preparing your environment to submit parallel jobs to LSF
 Submitting a parallel job
 Starting parallel tasks with LSF utilities
 For simple parallel jobs you can use LSF utilities to start parts of the job on other hosts. Because LSF utilities handle signals transparently, LSF
can suspend and resume all components of your job without additional programming.
Job slot limits for parallel jobs
 A job slot is the basic unit of processor allocation in LSF. A sequential job uses one job slot. A parallel job that has N components (tasks) uses
N job slots, which can span multiple hosts.
Specify a minimum and maximum number of tasks
 By default, when scheduling a parallel job, the number of slots allocated on each host will not exceed the number of CPUs on that host even
though host MXJ is set greater than number of CPUs. When submitting a parallel job, you can also specify a minimum number and a maximum
number of tasks.
Restricting job size requested by parallel jobs
 Specifying a list of allowed job sizes (number of tasks) in queues or application proﬁles enables LSF to check the requested job sizes when
submitting, modifying, or switching jobs.
About specifying a ﬁrst execution host
 In general, the ﬁrst execution host satisﬁes certain resource requirements that might not be present on other available hosts.
Compute units
 Compute units are similar to host groups, with the added feature of granularity allowing the construction of cluster-wide structures that mimic
network architecture. Job scheduling using compute unit resource requirements optimizes job placement based on the underlying system
architecture, minimizing communications bottlenecks. Compute units are especially useful when running communication-intensive parallel
jobs spanning several hosts. Compute units encode cluster network topology for jobs with a lot of communication between processes. For
example, compute units can help minimize network latency and take advantage of fast interconnects by placing all job tasks in the same rack
instead of making several network hops.
Control processor allocation across hosts
 Sometimes you need to control how the selected processors for a parallel job are distributed across the hosts in the cluster.
Run parallel processes on homogeneous hosts
 Parallel jobs run on multiple hosts. If your cluster has heterogeneous hosts some processes from a parallel job may for example, run on
Solaris. However, for performance reasons you may want all processes of a job to run on the same type of host instead of having some
processes run on one type of host and others on another type of host.
Limit the number of processors allocated
 Use the TASKLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues or lsb.applications to limit the number of tasks that can be allocated to a parallel job.
Limit the number of allocated hosts
Use the HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB parameter in lsb.queues to limit the number of hosts that a job can use. For example, if a user submits a
IBM Spectrum LSF 681

parallel job using bsub -n 1,4096 -R "span[ptile=1]", this job requests 4096 hosts from the cluster. If you specify a limit of 20 hosts
per job, a user submitting a job requesting 4096 hosts will only be allowed to use 20 hosts.
Reserve processors
Reserve memory for pending parallel jobs
Backﬁll scheduling
By default, a reserved job slot cannot be used by another job. To make better use of resources and improve performance of LSF, you can
conﬁgure backﬁll scheduling.
How deadline constraint scheduling works for parallel jobs
Deadline constraint scheduling is enabled by default.
Optimized preemption of parallel jobs
You can conﬁgure preemption for parallel jobs to reduce the number of jobs suspended in order to run a large parallel job.
Controlling CPU and memory afﬁnity
IBM® Spectrum LSF can schedule jobs that are afﬁnity aware. This allows jobs to take advantage of different levels of processing units (NUMA
nodes, sockets, cores, and threads). Afﬁnity scheduling is supported only on Linux and Power 7 and Power 8 hosts. Afﬁnity scheduling is
supported in LSF Standard Edition and LSF Advanced Edition. Afﬁnity scheduling is not supported on LSF Express Edition.
Processor binding for LSF job processes
Processor binding for LSF job processes takes advantage of the power of multiple processors and multiple cores to provide hard processor
binding functionality for sequential LSF jobs and parallel jobs that run on a single host.
Running parallel jobs with blaunch
Learn how to conﬁgure and use the blaunch command for launching parallel and distributed applications within LSF. Task geometry allows for
flexibility in how tasks are grouped for execution on system nodes. A typical LSF parallel job launches its tasks across multiple hosts. By
default you can enforce limits on the total resources used by all the tasks in the job.
How LSF runs parallel jobs
When LSF runs a job, the LSB_HOSTS variable is set to the names of the hosts running the batch job. For a parallel batch job, LSB_HOSTS contains
the complete list of hosts that LSF has allocated to that job.
LSF starts one controlling process for the parallel batch job on the ﬁrst host in the host list. It is up to your parallel application to read the
LSB_HOSTS environment variable to get the list of hosts, and start the parallel job components on all the other allocated hosts.
For running large parallel jobs, use LSB_MCPU_HOSTS. The format for this parameter is LSB_MCPU_HOSTS="host_nameA num_processors1
host_nameB num_processors2..."
LSF provides a generic interface to parallel programming packages so that any parallel package can be supported by writing shell scripts or wrapper
programs.
Preparing your environment to submit parallel jobs to LSF
Getting the host list
Some applications can take this list of hosts directly as a command line parameter. For other applications, you may need to process the host list.
Example
The following example shows a /bin/sh script that processes all the hosts in the host list, including identifying the host where the job script is
executing.
#!/bin/sh 
# Process the list of host names in LSB_HOSTS 
for host in $LSB_HOSTS ; do 
handle_host $host 
done
Parallel job scripts
Each parallel programming package has different requirements for specifying and communicating with all the hosts used by a parallel job. LSF is not
tailored to work with a speciﬁc parallel programming package. Instead, LSF provides a generic interface so that any parallel package can be
supported by writing shell scripts or wrapper programs.
You can modify these scripts to support more parallel packages.
Using a job starter
 
682    IBM Spectrum LSF

Using a job starter
About this task
You can conﬁgure the script into your queue as a job starter, and then all users can submit parallel jobs without having to type the script name.
Procedure
To see if your queue already has a job starter deﬁned, run bqueues -l.
Submitting a parallel job
About this task
LSF can allocate more than one slot to run a job and automatically keeps track of the job status, while a parallel job is running.
When submitting a parallel job that requires multiple slots, you can specify the exact number of slots to use.
Procedure
1. To submit a parallel job, use bsub -n and specify the number of slots the job requires.
2. To submit jobs based on the number of available job slots instead of the number of CPUs, use PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params.
For example:
bsub -n 4 myjob
The job myjob submits as a parallel job. The job is started when four job slots are available.
Note: When PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the resource requirement string keyword ncpus refers to the number of slots
instead of the number of CPUs however lshosts output will continue to show ncpus as deﬁned by EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf.
Starting parallel tasks with LSF utilities
For simple parallel jobs you can use LSF utilities to start parts of the job on other hosts. Because LSF utilities handle signals transparently, LSF can
suspend and resume all components of your job without additional programming.
Running parallel tasks with lsgrun
The simplest parallel job runs an identical copy of the executable on every host. The lsgrun command takes a list of host names and runs the
speciﬁed task on each host. The lsgrun -p command speciﬁes that the task should be run in parallel on each host.
Example
This example submits a job that uses lsgrun to run myjob on all the selected hosts in parallel:
bsub -n 10 ’lsgrun -p -m "$LSB_HOSTS" myjob’ 
Job <3856> is submitted to default queue <normal>.
For more complicated jobs, you can write a shell script that runs lsrun in the background to start each component.
Running parallel tasks with the blaunch distributed application framework
Most MPI implementations and many distributed applications use rsh and ssh as their task launching mechanism. The blaunch command provides a
drop-in replacement for rsh and ssh as a transparent method for launching parallel and distributed applications within LSF.
Similar to the lsrun command, blaunch transparently connects directly to the RES and sbatchd on the remote host, and subsequently creates and
tracks the remote tasks, and provides the connection back to LSF. There is no need to insert pam or taskstarter into the rsh or ssh calling sequence,
or conﬁgure any wrapper scripts.
Important: You cannot run blaunch directly from the command line.
IBM Spectrum LSF 683

blaunch only works within an LSF job; it can only be used to launch tasks on remote hosts that are part of a job allocation. It cannot be used as a
standalone command. On success blaunch exits with 0.
Windows: blaunch is supported on Windows 2000 or later with the following exceptions:
Only the following signals are supported: SIGKILL, SIGSTOP, SIGCONT.
The -n option is not supported.
CMD.EXE /C <user command line> is used as intermediate command shell when: -no-shell is not speciﬁed
CMD.EXE /C is not used when -no-shell is speciﬁed.
Windows User Account Control must be conﬁgured correctly to run jobs.
Submitting jobs with blaunch
Use bsub to call blaunch, or to invoke a job script that calls blaunch. The blaunch command assumes that bsub -n implies one remote task per job
slot.
The blaunch syntax is:
blaunch [-n] [-u host_ﬁle | -z host_name ... | host_name] [-use-login-shell | -no-shell ] command [argument ... ]
blaunch [-h | -V]
The following are some examples of blaunch usage:
Submit a parallel job:
bsub -n 4 blaunch myjob
Submit a job to an application proﬁle
bsub -n 4 -app pjob blaunch myjob 
Job slot limits for parallel jobs
A job slot is the basic unit of processor allocation in LSF. A sequential job uses one job slot. A parallel job that has N components (tasks) uses N job
slots, which can span multiple hosts.
By default, running and suspended jobs count against the job slot limits for queues, users, hosts, and processors that they are associated with.
With processor reservation, job slots that are reserved by pending jobs also count against all job slot limits.
When backﬁlling occurs, the job slots used by backﬁll jobs count against the job slot limits for the queues and users, but not hosts or processors. This
means when a pending job and a running job occupy the same physical job slot on a host, both jobs count towards the queue limit, but only the
pending job counts towards host limit.
Specify a minimum and maximum number of tasks
By default, when scheduling a parallel job, the number of slots allocated on each host will not exceed the number of CPUs on that host even though
host MXJ is set greater than number of CPUs. When submitting a parallel job, you can also specify a minimum number and a maximum number of
tasks.
If you specify a maximum and minimum number of tasks, the job can start if the minimum number of processors are available, but it always tries to
use up to the maximum number of processors, depending on how many processors are available at the time. Once the job starts running, no more
processors are allocated to it even though more may be available later on.
Jobs that request fewer tasks than the minimum TASKLIMIT deﬁned for the queue or application proﬁle to which the job is submitted, or more tasks
than the maximum TASKLIMIT are rejected. If the job requests minimum and maximum tasks, the maximum requested cannot be less than the
minimum TASKLIMIT, and the minimum requested cannot be more than the maximum TASKLIMIT.
If PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the job speciﬁes a maximum and minimum number of job slots instead of tasks. LSF ignores the
number of CPUs constraint during parallel job scheduling and only schedules based on slots.
If PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT is not deﬁned for a re-sizable job, individual allocation requests are constrained by the number of CPUs during
scheduling. However, the ﬁnal re-sizable job allocation may not agree. For example, if an automatically re-sizable job requests 1 to 4 tasks, on a 2
CPU, 4 slot box, an automatically re-sizable job eventually will use up to 4 slots.
Syntax
684    IBM Spectrum LSF

bsub -n min_task[,max_task]
Example
bsub -n 4,16 myjob
At most, 16 processors can be allocated to this job. If there are less than 16 processors eligible to run the job, this job can still be started as long as
the number of eligible processors is greater than or equal to 4.
Restricting job size requested by parallel jobs
Specifying a list of allowed job sizes (number of tasks) in queues or application proﬁles enables LSF to check the requested job sizes when
submitting, modifying, or switching jobs.
About this task
Certain applications may yield better performance with speciﬁc job sizes (for example, the power of two, so that the job sizes are x^2), or some sites
may want to run all job sizes to generate high cluster resource utilization. The JOB_SIZE_LIST parameter in lsb.queues or lsb.applications allows you
to deﬁne a discrete list of allowed job sizes for the speciﬁed queues or application proﬁles.
LSF rejects jobs requesting job sizes that are not in this list, or jobs requesting a range of job sizes. The ﬁrst job size in this list is the default job size,
which is the job size assigned to jobs that do not explicitly request a job size. The rest of the list can be deﬁned in any order.
For example, if the job size list for the queue1 queue allows 2, 4, 8, and 16 tasks, and you submit a parallel job requesting 10 tasks in this queue
(bsub -q queue1 -n 10 ...), that job is rejected because the job size of 10 is not explicitly allowed in the list. To assign a default job size of 4,
specify 4 as the ﬁrst value in the list, and job submissions that do not request a job size are automatically assigned a job size of 4
(JOB_SIZE_LIST=4 2 8 16).
When using resource requirements to specify job size, the request must specify a single ﬁxed job size and not multiple values or a range of values:
When using compound resource requirements with -n (that is, both -n and -R options), ensure that the compound resource requirement
matches the -n value, which must match a value in the job size list.
When using compound resource requirements without -n, the compound resource requirement must imply a ﬁxed job size number, and the
implied total job size must match a value in the job size list.
When using alternative resource requirements, each of the alternatives must request a ﬁxed job size number, and all alternative values must
match the values in the job size list.
For example, the job size list for the normal queue allows 2, 4, and 8 tasks, with 2 as the default (JOB_SIZE_LIST=2 4 8). For the resource
requirement "2*{-}+{-}", the last term ({-}) does not contain a ﬁxed number of tasks, so this compound resource requirement is rejected in any
queue that has a job size list.
For the following job submission with the compound resource requirement:
bsub -R "2*{-}+{-}" -q normal myjob
This job submission is rejected because the compound resource requirement does not contain a ﬁxed number of tasks.
For the following job submission with the compound resource requirement:
bsub -n 4 -R "2*{-}+{-}" -q normal myjob
This job submission is accepted because -n 4 requests a ﬁxed number of tasks, even though the compound resource requirement does not.
For the following job submission with compound and alternative resource requirements:
bsub -R "{2*{-}+{-}}||{4*{-}}" -q normal myjob
This job submission is rejected for specifying a range of values because the ﬁrst alternative (2*{-}+{-}) does not imply a ﬁxed job size.
For the following job submission with compound and alternative resource requirements for the interactive queue:
bsub -R "{2*{-}+{-}}||{4*{-}}" -q interactive -H myjob
This job submission is accepted because the interactive queue does not have a job size list. However, if you try to modify or switch this job
to any queue or application proﬁle with a job size list, and the job has not yet started, the request is rejected. For example, if this job has job ID
123 and is not started, the following request is rejected because the normal queue has a job size list:
bswitch normal 123
Similarly, if the app1 application proﬁle has the same job size list as the normal queue, the following request is also rejected:
bmod -app app1 123
When deﬁned in both a queue (lsb.queues) and an application proﬁle (lsb.applications), the job size request must satisfy both requirements. In
addition, JOB_SIZE_LIST overrides any TASKLIMIT (formerly PROCLIMIT) parameters deﬁned at the same level. Job size requirements do not apply
IBM Spectrum LSF 685

to queues and application proﬁles with no job size lists, nor do they apply to other levels of job submissions (that is, host level or cluster level job
submissions).
Specify a job size list for queues and application proﬁles as follows:
Procedure
1. Log on as root or the LSF administrator on any host in the cluster.
2. Deﬁne the JOB_SIZE_LIST parameter for the speciﬁc application proﬁles (in lsb.applications) or queues (in lsb.queues).
JOB_SIZE_LIST=default_size [size ...]
For example,
lsb.applications:
Begin Application  
NAME = app1  
...  
JOB_SIZE_LIST=4 2 8 16  
...  
End Application 
lsb.queues:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue1  
...  
JOB_SIZE_LIST=4 2 8 16  
...  
End Queue 
3. Save the changes to modiﬁed the conﬁguration ﬁles.
4. Use badmin ckconﬁg to check the new queue deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
5. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure mbatchd.
About specifying a ﬁrst execution host
In general, the ﬁrst execution host satisﬁes certain resource requirements that might not be present on other available hosts.
By default, LSF selects the ﬁrst execution host dynamically according to the resource availability and host load for a parallel job. Alternatively, you
can specify one or more ﬁrst execution host candidates so that LSF selects one of the candidates as the ﬁrst execution host.
When a ﬁrst execution host is speciﬁed to run the ﬁrst task of a parallel application, LSF does not include the ﬁrst execution host or host group in a
job resize allocation request.
Specifying a ﬁrst execution host
 
Specifying a ﬁrst execution host
Procedure
To specify one or more hosts, host groups, or compute units as ﬁrst execution host candidates, add the (!) symbol after the host name.
You can specify ﬁrst execution host candidates at job submission, or in the queue deﬁnition.
Rules
 Follow these guidelines when you specify ﬁrst execution host candidates:
Job level
Procedure
1. Use the -m option of bsub:
bsub -n 32 -m "hostA! hostB hostgroup1! hostC" myjob
The scheduler selects either hostA or a host deﬁned in hostgroup1 as the ﬁrst execution host, based on the job’s resource requirements and
host availability.
2. In a multicluster environment, insert the (!) symbol after the cluster name, as shown in the following example:
bsub -n 2 -m "host2@cluster2! host3@cluster2" my_parallel_job
686    IBM Spectrum LSF

Queue level
About this task
The queue-level speciﬁcation of ﬁrst execution host candidates applies to all jobs submitted to the queue.
Procedure
Specify the ﬁrst execution host candidates in the list of hosts in the HOSTS parameter in lsb.queues:
HOSTS = hostA! hostB hostgroup1! hostC
Rules
Follow these guidelines when you specify ﬁrst execution host candidates:
If you specify a host group or compute unit, you must ﬁrst deﬁne the host group or compute unit in the ﬁle lsb.hosts.
Do not specify a dynamic host group as a ﬁrst execution host.
Do not specify all, allremote, others, or a host partition as a ﬁrst execution host.
Do not specify a preference (+) for a host identiﬁed by (!) as a ﬁrst execution host candidate.
For each parallel job, specify enough regular hosts to satisfy the CPU requirement for the job. Once LSF selects a ﬁrst execution host for the
current job, the other ﬁrst execution host candidates become unavailable to the current job.
You cannot specify ﬁrst execution host candidates when you use the brun command.
If the ﬁrst execution host is incorrect at job submission, the job is rejected. If incorrect conﬁgurations exist on the queue level, warning messages are
logged and displayed when LSF starts, restarts, or is reconﬁgured.
Job chunking
Specifying ﬁrst execution host candidates affects job chunking. For example, the following jobs have different job requirements, and are not placed in
the same job chunk:
bsub -n 2 -m "hostA! hostB hostC" myjob 
bsub -n 2 -m "hostA hostB hostC" myjob 
bsub -n 2 -m "hostA hostB! hostC" myjob
The requirements of each job in this example are:
Job 1 must start on hostA
Job 2 can start and run on hostA, hostB, or hostC
Job 3 must start on hostB
For job chunking, all jobs must request the same hosts and the same ﬁrst execution hosts (if speciﬁed). Jobs that specify a host preference must all
specify the same preference.
Resource reservation
If you specify ﬁrst execution host candidates at the job or queue level, LSF tries to reserve a job slot on the ﬁrst execution host. If LSF cannot reserve
a ﬁrst execution host job slot, it does not reserve slots on any other hosts.
Compute units
If compute units resource requirements are used, the compute unit containing the ﬁrst execution host is given priority:
bsub -n 64 -m "hg! cu1 cu2 cu3 cu4" -R "cu[pref=conﬁg]" myjob
In this example the ﬁrst execution host is selected from the host group hg. Next, in the job’s allocation list are any appropriate hosts from the same
compute unit as the ﬁrst execution host. Finally, remaining hosts are grouped by compute unit, with compute unit groups appearing in the same
order as in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts.
Compound resource requirements
If compound resource requirements are being used, the resource requirements speciﬁc to the ﬁrst execution host should appear ﬁrst:
bsub -m "hostA! hg12" -R "1*{select[type==X86_64]rusage[licA=1]} + {select[type==any]}" myjob
In this example the ﬁrst execution host must satisfy: select[type==X86_64]rusage[licA=1]
IBM Spectrum LSF 687

Compute units
Compute units are similar to host groups, with the added feature of granularity allowing the construction of cluster-wide structures that mimic
network architecture. Job scheduling using compute unit resource requirements optimizes job placement based on the underlying system
architecture, minimizing communications bottlenecks. Compute units are especially useful when running communication-intensive parallel jobs
spanning several hosts. Compute units encode cluster network topology for jobs with a lot of communication between processes. For example,
compute units can help minimize network latency and take advantage of fast interconnects by placing all job tasks in the same rack instead of
making several network hops.
Resource requirement strings can specify compute units requirements such as running a job exclusively (excl), spreading a job evenly over multiple
compute units (balance), or choosing compute units based on other criteria.
Compute unit conﬁguration
To enforce consistency, compute unit conﬁguration has the following requirements:
Hosts and host groups appear in the ﬁnest granularity compute unit type, and nowhere else.
Hosts appear in the membership list of at most one compute unit of the ﬁnest granularity.
All compute units of the same type have the same type of compute units (or hosts) as members.
Tip: Conﬁgure each individual host as a compute unit to use the compute unit features for host level job allocation.
Where to use compute units
LSF compute units can be used in deﬁning the following parameters in LSF conﬁguration ﬁles:
EXCLUSIVE in lsb.queues for the compute unit type allowed for the queue.
HOSTS in lsb.queues for the hosts on which jobs from this queue can be run.
RES_REQ in lsb.queues for queue compute unit resource requirements.
RES_REQ in lsb.applications for application proﬁle compute unit resource requirements.
Control job locality using compute units
 Compute units are groups of hosts laid out by the LSF administrator and conﬁgured to mimic the network architecture, minimizing
communications overhead for optimal placement of parallel jobs. Different granularity of compute units provide the flexibility to conﬁgure an
extensive cluster accurately and run larger jobs over larger compute units.
Wildcard and special characters to deﬁne names in compute units
 You can use special characters when deﬁning compute unit members under the MEMBER column to specify hosts, host groups, and compute
units. These are useful to deﬁne several names in a single entry such as a range of hosts, or for all names with a certain text string.
Deﬁne condensed compute units
 You can deﬁne condensed compute units to display information for its hosts as a summary for the entire group, including the slot usage for
each compute unit. This is useful because it allows you to see statistics of the compute unit as a whole instead of having to add up the data
yourself. This allows you to better plan the distribution of jobs submitted to the hosts and compute units in your cluster.
Import external host groups (egroup)
 When the membership of a compute unit changes frequently, or when the compute unit contains a large number of members, you can use an
external executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than having to conﬁgure the membership manually. You can write a site-
speciﬁc egroup executable that retrieves compute unit names and the hosts that belong to each group, and compute units of the ﬁnest
granularity can contain egroups as members.
Use compute units with advance reservation
 When running exclusive compute unit jobs (with the resource requirement cu[excl]), an advance reservation can affect hosts outside the
advance reservation but in the same compute unit.
Control job locality using compute units
Compute units are groups of hosts laid out by the LSF administrator and conﬁgured to mimic the network architecture, minimizing communications
overhead for optimal placement of parallel jobs. Different granularity of compute units provide the flexibility to conﬁgure an extensive cluster
accurately and run larger jobs over larger compute units.
Resource requirement keywords within the compute unit section can be used to allocate resources throughout compute units in manner analogous
to host resource allocation. Compute units then replace hosts as the basic unit of allocation for a job.
High performance computing clusters running large parallel jobs spread over many hosts beneﬁt from using compute units. Communications
bottlenecks within the network architecture of a large cluster can be isolated through careful conﬁguration of compute units. Using compute units
instead of hosts as the basic allocation unit, scheduling policies can be applied on a large scale.
Note:
Conﬁgure each individual host as a compute unit to use the compute unit features for host level job allocation.
688    IBM Spectrum LSF

As indicated in the picture, two types of compute units have been deﬁned in the parameter COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES in lsb.params:
COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES= enclosure! rack
! indicates the default compute unit type. The ﬁrst type listed (enclosure) is the ﬁnest granularity and the only type of compute unit containing
hosts and host groups. Coarser granularity rack compute units can only contain enclosures.
The hosts have been grouped into compute units in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts as follows (some lines omitted):
Begin ComputeUnit  
NAME         MEMBER             CONDENSED TYPE 
enclosure1   (host1[01-16])     Y         enclosure 
... 
enclosure8   (host8[01-16])     Y         enclosure 
rack1        (enclosure[1-2])   Y         rack 
rack2        (enclosure[3-4])   Y         rack 
rack3        (enclosure[5-6])   Y         rack 
rack4        (enclosure[7-8])   Y         rack 
End ComputeUnit 
This example deﬁnes 12 compute units, all of which have condensed output:
enclosure1 through enclosure8 are the ﬁnest granularity, and each contain 16 hosts.
rack1, rack2, rack3, and rack4 are the coarsest in granularity, and each contain 2 enclosures.
Syntax
The cu string supports the following syntax:
cu[balance]
All compute units used for this job should contribute the same number of slots (to within one slot). It provides a balanced allocation over the
fewest possible compute units.
cu[pref=bestﬁt]
The job will be placed to span as few compute units as possible (given the current resource availability) while preferring to use already
occupied resources for the job, in order to try to reduce fragmentation in the cluster. Do not use with the balance keyword.
cu[pref=conﬁg]
Compute units for this job are considered in the order that they appear in the lsb.hosts conﬁguration ﬁle. This is the default value.
cu[pref=minavail]
Compute units with the fewest available slots are considered ﬁrst for this job. It is useful for smaller jobs (both sequential and parallel) since
this minimizes the possible fragmentation of compute units, leaving whole compute units free for larger jobs.
cu[pref=maxavail]
Compute units with the most available slots are considered ﬁrst for this job.
cu[maxcus=number]
Maximum number of compute units the job can run across.
cu[usablecuslots=number]
All compute units used for this job should contribute the same minimum number of slots. At most the ﬁnal allocated compute unit can
contribute fewer than number slots.
cu[type=cu_type]
Type of compute unit being used, where cu_type is one of the types deﬁned by COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES in lsb.params. The default is the
compute unit type listed ﬁrst in lsb.params.
cu[excl]
Compute units used exclusively for the job. Must be enabled by EXCLUSIVE in lsb.queues.
Continuing with the example shown above, assume lsb.queues contains the parameter deﬁnition EXCLUSIVE=CU[rack] and that the slots available
for each compute unit are shown under MAX in the condensed display from bhosts, where HOST_NAME refers to the compute unit:
IBM Spectrum LSF 689

HOST_NAME    STATUS   JL/U  MAX  NJOBS  RUN  SSUSP  USUSP  RSV 
enclosure1   ok       -     64   34     34    0      0      0 
enclosure2   ok       -     64   54     54    0      0      0 
enclosure3   ok       -     64   46     46    0      0      0 
enclosure4   ok       -     64   44     44    0      0      0 
enclosure5   ok       -     64   45     45    0      0      0 
enclosure6   ok       -     64   44     44    0      0      0 
enclosure7   ok       -     32   0      0     0      0      0 
enclosure8   ok       -     64   0      0     0      0      0 
rack1        ok       -     128  88     88    0      0      0 
rack2        ok       -     128  90     90    0      0      0 
rack3        ok       -     128  89     89    0      0      0 
rack4        ok       -     128  0      0     0      0      0 
Based on the 12 conﬁgured compute units, jobs can be submitted with a variety of compute unit requirements.
Use compute units
1. bsub -R "cu[]" -n 64 ./app
This job is restricted to compute units of the default type enclosure. The default pref=conﬁg applies, with compute units considered in
conﬁguration order. The job runs on 30 slots in enclosure1, 10 slots in enclosure2, 18 slots in enclosure3, and 6 slots in enclosure4 for
a total of 64 slots.
2. Compute units can be considered in order of most free slots or fewest free slots, where free slots include any slots available and not occupied
by a running job.
bsub -R "cu[pref=minavail]" -n 32 ./app
This job is restricted to compute units of the default type enclosure in the order pref=minavail. Compute units with the fewest free slots are
considered ﬁrst. The job runs on 10 slots in enclosure2, 18 slots in enclosure3 and 4 slots in enclosure5 for a total of 32 slots.
3. bsub -R "cu[type=rack:pref=maxavail]" -n 64 ./app
This job is restricted to compute units of the default type enclosure in the order pref=maxavail. Compute units with the most free slots are
considered ﬁrst. The job runs on 64 slots in enclosure8.
Localized allocations
Jobs can be run over a limited number of compute units using the maxcus keyword.
1. bsub -R "cu[pref=maxavail:maxcus=1]" ./app
This job is restricted to a single enclosure, and compute units with the most free slots are considered ﬁrst. The job requirements are satisﬁed
by enclosure8 which has 64 free slots.
2. bsub -n 64 -R "cu[maxcus=3]" ./app
This job requires a total of 64 slots over 3 enclosures or less. Compute units are considered in conﬁguration order. The job requirements are
satisﬁed by the following allocation:
Compute unit Free slots
enclosure1 30
enclosure3 18
enclosure4 16
Balanced slot allocations
Balanced allocations split jobs evenly between compute units, which increases the efﬁciency of some applications.
1. bsub -n 80 -R "cu[balance:maxcus=4]" ./app
This job requires a balanced allocation over the fewest possible compute units of type enclosure (the default type), with a total of 80 slots.
Since none of the conﬁgured enclosures have 80 slots, 2 compute units with 40 slots each are used, satisfying the maxcus requirement to use
4 compute units or less.
The keyword pref is not included so the default order of pref=conﬁg is used. The job requirements are satisﬁed by 27 slots in enclosure1,
27 slots in enclosure7, and 26 slots in enclosure8, for a total of 80 slots.
2. bsub -n 64 -R "cu[balance:type=rack:pref=maxavail]" ./app
This job requires a balanced allocation over the fewest possible compute units of type rack, with a total of 64 slots. Compute units with the
most free slots are considered ﬁrst, in the order rack4, rack1, rack3, rack2. The job requirements are satisﬁed by rack4.
3. bsub -n "40,80" -R "cu[balance:pref=minavail]" ./app
This job requires a balanced allocation over compute units of type rack, with a range of 40 to 80 slots. Only the minimum number of slots is
considered when a range is speciﬁed along with keyword balance, so the job needs 40 slots. Compute units with the fewest free slots are
considered ﬁrst.
690    IBM Spectrum LSF

Because balance uses the fewest possible compute units, racks with 40 or more slots are considered ﬁrst, namely rack1 and rack4. The rack
with the fewest available slots is then selected, and all job requirements are satisﬁed by 40 slots in enclosure8.
Balanced host allocations
Using balance and ptile together within the requirement string results in a balanced host allocation over compute units, and the same number of
slots from each host. The ﬁnal host may provide fewer slots if required.
bsub -n 64 -R "cu[balance] span[ptile=4]" ./app
This job requires a balanced allocation over the fewest possible compute units of type enclosure, with a total of 64 slots. Each host used
must provide 4 slots. Since enclosure8 has 64 slots available over 16 hosts (4 slots per host), it satisﬁes the job requirements.
Had enclosure8 not satisﬁed the requirements, other possible allocations in order of consideration (fewest compute units ﬁrst) include:
Number of compute unitsNumber of hosts
2 8+8
3 5+5+6
4 4+4+4+4
5 3+3+3+3+4
Minimum slot allocations
Minimum slot allocations result in jobs spreading over fewer compute units, and ignoring compute units with few hosts available.
1. bsub -n 45 -R "cu[usablecuslots=10:pref=minavail]" ./app
This job requires an allocation of at least 10 slots in each enclosure, except possibly the last one. Compute units with the fewest free slots are
considered ﬁrst. The requirements are satisﬁed by a slot allocation of:
Compute unitNumber of slots
enclosure2 10
enclosure5 19
enclosure4 16
2. bsub -n "1,140" -R "cu[usablecuslots=20]" ./app
This job requires an allocation of at least 20 slots in each enclosure, except possibly the last one. Compute units are considered in
conﬁguration order and as close to 140 slots are allocated as possible. The requirements are satisﬁed by an allocation of 140 slots, where
only the last compute unit has fewer than 20 slots allocated as follows:
Compute unitNumber of slots
enclosure1 30
enclosure4 20
enclosure6 20
enclosure7 64
enclosure2 6
Exclusive compute unit jobs
Because EXCLUSIVE=CU[rack] in lsb.queues, jobs may use compute units of type rack or ﬁner granularity type enclosure exclusively. Exclusive
jobs lock all compute units they run in, even if not all slots are being used by the job. Running compute unit exclusive jobs minimizes communications
slowdowns resulting from shared network bandwidth.
1. bsub -R "cu[excl:type=enclosure]" ./app
This job requires exclusive use of an enclosure with compute units considered in conﬁguration order. The ﬁrst enclosure not running any jobs
is enclosure7.
2. Using excl with usablecuslots, the job avoids compute units where a large portion of the hosts are unavailable.
bsub -n 90 -R "cu[excl:usablecuslots=12:type=enclosure]" ./app
This job requires exclusive use of compute units, and will not use a compute unit if fewer than 12 slots are available. Compute units are
considered in conﬁguration order. In this case the job requirements are satisﬁed by 64 slots in enclosure7 and 26 slots in enclosure8.
3. bsub -R "cu[excl]" ./app
This job requires exclusive use of a rack with compute units considered in conﬁguration order. The only rack not running any jobs is rack4.
Reservation
IBM Spectrum LSF 691

Compute unit constraints such as keywords maxcus, balance, and excl can result in inaccurately predicted start times from default LSF resource
reservation. Time-based resource reservation provides a more accurate pending job predicted start time. When calculating job a time-based
predicted start time, LSF considers job scheduling constraints and requirements, including job topology and resource limits, for example.
Host-level compute units
Conﬁguring each individual host as a compute unit allows you to use the compute unit features for host level job allocation. Consider an example
where one type of compute units has been deﬁned in the parameter COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES in lsb.params:
COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES= host!
The hosts have been grouped into compute hosts in the ComputeUnit section of lsb.hosts as follows:
Begin ComputeUnit  
NAME  MEMBER   TYPE 
h1    host1    host 
h2    host2    host 
... 
h50   host50   host 
End ComputeUnit 
Each conﬁgured compute unit of default type host contains a single host.
Order host allocations
Using the compute unit keyword pref, hosts can be considered in order of most free slots or fewest free slots, where free slots include any slots
available and not occupied by a running job:
1. bsub -R "cu[]" ./app
Compute units of default type host, each containing a single host, are considered in conﬁguration order.
2. bsub -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app
Compute units of default type host each contain a single host. Compute units with the fewest free slots are considered ﬁrst.
3. bsub -n 20 -R "cu[pref=maxavail]" ./app
Compute units of default type host each contain a single host. Compute units with the most free slots are considered ﬁrst. A total of 20 slots
are allocated for this job.
Limit hosts in allocations
Use the compute unit keyword maxcus to specify the maximum number of hosts allocated to a job can be set:
bsub -n 12 -R "cu[pref=maxavail:maxcus=3]" ./app
Compute units of default type host each contain a single host. Compute units with the most free slots are considered ﬁrst. This job requires
an allocation of 12 slots over at most 3 hosts.
Balanced slot allocations
Using the compute unit keyword balance, jobs can be evenly distributed over hosts:
1. bsub -n 9 -R "cu[balance]" ./app
Compute units of default type host, each containing a single host, are considered in conﬁguration order. Possible balanced allocations are:
Compute units Hosts Number of slots per host
1 1 9
2 2 4, 5
3 3 3, 3, 3
4 4 2, 2, 2, 3
5 5 2, 2, 2, 2, 1
6 6 2, 2, 2, 1, 1, 1
7 7 2, 2, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
8 8 2, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
9 9 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
2. bsub -n 9 -R "cu[balance:maxcus=3]" ./app
Compute units of default type host, each containing a single host, are considered in conﬁguration order. Possible balanced allocations are 1
host with 9 slots, 2 hosts with 4 and 5 slots, or 3 hosts with 3 slots each.
Minimum slot allocations
692    IBM Spectrum LSF

Using the compute unit keyword usablecuslots, hosts are only considered if they have a minimum number of slots free and usable for this job:
1. bsub -n 16 -R "cu[usablecuslots=4]" ./app
Compute units of default type host, each containing a single host, are considered in conﬁguration order. Only hosts with 4 or more slots
available and not occupied by a running job are considered. Each host (except possibly the last host allocated) must contribute at least 4 slots
to the job.
2. bsub -n 16 -R "rusage[mem=1000] cu[usablecuslots=4]" ./app
Compute units of default type host, each containing a single host, are considered in conﬁguration order. Only hosts with 4 or more slots
available, not occupied by a running job, and with 1000 memory units are considered. A host with 10 slots and 2000 units of memory, for
example, will only have 2 slots free that satisfy the memory requirements of this job.
Best ﬁt for job placement
Some users may want LSF to place jobs with an optimal placement with respect to compute units, without having to specify different requirements
for different jobs. For this purpose, LSF has the "bestﬁt" value for the pref option. For example, bsub -R "cu [pref=bestfit]" ...
When this algorithm is used, LSF places the job to span as few compute units as possible (given the current resource availability) while preferring to
use already occupied resources for the job, in order to try to reduce fragmentation in the cluster. This is done by considering the underlying network
topology of the cluster, as speciﬁed in LSF Compute Units (CUs).
The "bestﬁt" value is different from other compute unit placement algorithms in that it considers multiple levels of the compute unit hierarchy, if
applicable. It also allows both large and small jobs to use the same compute unit requirements. Ultimately, it simpliﬁes the speciﬁcation of compute
unit requirements.
The [pref=bestﬁt] option can be used together with:
maxcus
type=<type>
usablecuslots=<num>
excl
compute unit preference -m option
The [pref=bestﬁt] algorithm works in two phases.
Examples of the usage of [pref=bestﬁt] and how the algorithm ﬁnds the best ﬁt of compute units:
bsub -R “cu[excl:pref=bestfit]” -n 10 myjob
An exclusive job on a best ﬁt of compute units
bsub -R “cu[pref=bestfit:usablecuslots=5]” -n 15 myjob
Best-ﬁt job placement with minimum slot allocations for the default level and below.
bsub -m “cu1+10 cu3+1” -R “cu[pref=bestfit] ” -n 10 myjob
Best-ﬁt job placement while taking host preference into consideration. Host preference has a higher priority.
bsub -R “cu[pref=bestfit:maxcus=2:type=switch]” -n 10 myjob
Best-ﬁt job placement with speciﬁed maxcus for the default level and below. For the second phase, LSF considers the lowest maxcus among
the user-speciﬁed value and the number of compute units that is calculated in the ﬁrst phase.
bsub -R “8*{select[LN]} + {cu[pref=bestfit]}” myjob
A job with a compound resource requirement.
Specify the compute unit order with the host preference feature
Before LSF 10.1, the compute unit order was determined only by the compute unit pref policies (cu[pref=config | maxavail | minavail]).
Host preference (speciﬁed by -m or HOSTS in lsb.queues) only affected the host order within each compute unit. In LSF 10.1, considering the
customer's requirement to specify compute unit order more flexibly, this behavior has been changed.
Currently, LSF allows use of the host preference to specify compute unit order along with cu[pref=config | maxavail | minavail] policy. The
following example illustrates use of the -m preference to specify the compute unit's order as: cu1>cu2>cu3>cu4.
bsub -n 2 -m "cu1+10 cu2+5 cu3+1 cu4" -R "cu[]" ./app 
Host preference works along with cu[pref=config | maxavail | minavail] in the following manner to determine compute unit order:
1. LSF calculates the compute unit preference according to the host preference, taking the highest preference of hosts within the compute unit
as the compute unit preference. For example:
a. In the following example, in which h1 h2 belong to cu1 and h3 h4 belong to cu2, according to the candidate host preference, LSF
determines that the cu1 preference is 10 and the cu2 preference is 0.
bsub -n 2 -m "h1+10 others" -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app 
IBM Spectrum LSF 693

b. In the following example, in which h1 h2 belong to cu1 and h3 h4 belong to cu2, according to the candidate host preference, LSF
determines that the cu1 preference is 10 and cu2 preference is 9.
bsub -n 2 -m "h1+10 h2+1 h3+9 h4+9" -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app 
2. LSF determines the compute unit order as follows:
a. When the compute unit preference calculated in step 1., above, differs, LSF orders the compute unit by the compute unit preference,
considering the compute unit with the higher preference ﬁrst. For example:
i. Because cu1 has a higher preference than cu2 in the following example, LSF ﬁrst considers cu1, then cu2, without regard for the
cu[pref=config | maxavail | minavail] policy.
bsub -n 2 -m "cu1+10 cu2" -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app
ii. cu[pref=maxvail] and cu[pref=config] also follow this policy.
b. When the compute unit preference calculated in step 1., above, is the same, LSF orders the compute unit using cu[pref=config |
maxavail | minavail]. For example:
i. Because all compute units in the following example do not have the preference, LSF uses standard logic to determine compute
unit order. pref=minavail takes effect.
bsub -n 2 -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app 
ii. Because all compute units in the following example have the same preference, LSF uses standard logic to determine compute
unit order. pref=minavail takes effect.
bsub -n 2 -m "cu1+10 cu2+10" -R "cu[pref=minavail]" ./app
iii. cu[pref=maxvail] and cu[pref=config] also follow this policy.
3. After LSF determines the compute unit order, the LSF scheduler adjusts the candidate host list according to the compute unit order.
For resource reservation, the host preference is considered when determining the resource on which the compute unit is reserved ﬁrst. The default,
pref=config, however, is always used.
The ﬁrst-execution host works with the compute unit feature as follows:
When mandatory ﬁrst-execution hosts are used together with the compute unit feature, the compute unit that contains the ﬁrst-execution
host is given ﬁrst preference among compute units. The remaining compute units are ordered according to the calculated compute unit
preference. As previously in LSF, exactly one of the candidate ﬁrst-execution hosts can be used in the job's allocation.
Note:
1. Compute unit policy pref=config|maxavail|minavail does not affect the order of compute units speciﬁed as ﬁrst-execution hosts.
This means that even when under the following circumstances:
a. You use the following options:
 -m "cu1! cu2! cu3!" -R "cu[pref=minavail]"
b. cu1 has 15 free slots.
c. cu2 has 10 free slots.
d. cu3 has 20 free slots.
LSF does not reorder the ﬁrst-execution host list under the compute unit cu[pref=config|maxavail|minavail] policy.
2. When using host preference to determine compute unit preference, the host speciﬁed as ﬁrst-execution host is not considered. Namely, LSF
counts only the preference of hosts that are not speciﬁed as ﬁrst-execution hosts.
For example, let cu1, cu2, cu3, cu4 denote compute units, all of the same type. Let hg denote a host group containing one host from each
compute unit.
The user submits the following job:
bsub -n 64 -m "hg! cu1+1 cu2+2 cu3+3 cu4+4" -R "cu[pref=config]" ./app 
When the job is dispatched, exactly one host from hg appears in the job's allocation list. (This host should appear in the ﬁrst position of the
list.) Next in the list are zero or more hosts from the same compute unit that as the ﬁrst-execution host. The remaining hosts from the other
compute units appear grouped by compute unit, with the groups themselves appearing in order, according to the high-low preference of the
compute unit. For example:
a. If h1 from cu1 is selected as the ﬁrst-execution host, the ﬁnal compute unit order would be cu1>cu4>cu3>cu2
b. If h2 from cu2 is selected as the ﬁrst-execution host, the ﬁnal compute unit order would be cu2>cu4>cu3>cu1
c. If h3 from cu3 is selected as the ﬁrst-execution host, the ﬁnal compute unit order would be cu3>cu4>cu2>cu1
d. If h4 from cu4 is selected as the ﬁrst-execution host, the ﬁnal compute unit order would be cu4>cu3>cu2>cu1
Conﬁguring compute units
 
Conﬁguring compute units
694    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
1. Log in as the LSF administrator to any host in the cluster.
2. Open lsb.params.
3. Add the COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES parameter if it does not already exist and list your compute unit types in order of granularity (ﬁnest ﬁrst).
COMPUTE_UNIT_TYPES=enclosure rack cabinet
4. Save your changes.
5. Open lsb.hosts.
6. Add the ComputeUnit section if it does not exist.
Begin ComputeUnit 
NAME        MEMBER         TYPE 
encl1       (hostA hg1)    enclosure 
encl2       (hostC hostD)  enclosure 
encl3       (hostE hostF)  enclosure 
encl4       (hostG hg2)    enclosure 
rack1       (encl1 encl2)  rack 
rack2       (encl3 encl4)  rack 
cab1        (rack1 rack2)  cabinet 
End ComputeUnit
7. Enter a compute unit name under the NAME column.
External compute units must be deﬁned in the egroup executable.
8. Specify hosts or host groups in the MEMBER column of the ﬁnest granularity compute unit type. Specify compute units in the MEMBER column
of coarser compute unit types.
(Optional) To tell LSF that the compute unit members of a ﬁnest granularity compute unit should be retrieved using egroup, put an
exclamation mark (!) in the MEMBER column.
9. Specify the type of compute unit in the TYPE column.
10. Save your changes.
11. Run badmin ckconﬁg to check the compute unit deﬁnition. If any errors are reported, ﬁx the problem and check the conﬁguration again.
12. Run badmin mbdrestart to apply the new conﬁguration.
To view conﬁgured compute units, run bmgroup -cu.
Wildcard and special characters to deﬁne names in compute units
You can use special characters when deﬁning compute unit members under the MEMBER column to specify hosts, host groups, and compute units.
These are useful to deﬁne several names in a single entry such as a range of hosts, or for all names with a certain text string.
When deﬁning host, host group, and compute unit members of compute units, you can use string literals and the following special characters:
Use a tilde (~) to exclude speciﬁed hosts, host groups, or compute units from the list. The tilde can be used in conjunction with the other
special characters listed below. The following example matches all hosts in group12 except for hostA, and hostB:
... (group12 ~hostA ~hostB) 
Use an asterisk (*) as a wildcard character to represent any number of characters. The following example matches all hosts beginning with the
text string “hostC” (such as hostCa, hostC1, or hostCZ1):
... (hostC*)
Use square brackets with a hyphen ([integer1 - integer2]) to deﬁne a range of non-negative integers at the end of a name. The ﬁrst integer
must be less than the second integer. The following example matches all hosts from hostD51 to hostD100:
... (hostD[51-100])
Use square brackets with commas ([integer1, integer2 ...]) to deﬁne individual non-negative integers at the end of a name. The following
example matches hostD101, hostD123, and hostD321:
... (hostD[101,123,321])
Use square brackets with commas and hyphens (such as [integer1 - integer2, integer3, integer4 - integer5]) to deﬁne different ranges of
non-negative integers at the end of a name. The following example matches all hosts from hostD1 to hostD100, hostD102, all hosts from
hostD201 to hostD300, and hostD320):
... (hostD[1-100,102,201-300,320])
Restrictions
You cannot use more than one set of square brackets in a single compute unit deﬁnition.
IBM Spectrum LSF 695

The following example is not correct:
... (hostA[1-10]B[1-20] hostC[101-120])
The following example is correct:
... (hostA[1-20] hostC[101-120])
The keywords all, allremote, all@cluster, other and default cannot be used when deﬁning compute units.
Deﬁne condensed compute units
You can deﬁne condensed compute units to display information for its hosts as a summary for the entire group, including the slot usage for each
compute unit. This is useful because it allows you to see statistics of the compute unit as a whole instead of having to add up the data yourself. This
allows you to better plan the distribution of jobs submitted to the hosts and compute units in your cluster.
To deﬁne condensed compute units, add a CONDENSE column to the ComputeUnit section. Under this column, enter Y to deﬁne a condensed host
group or N to deﬁne an noncondensed host group, as shown in the following:
Begin ComputeUnit 
NAME    CONDENSE   MEMBER                TYPE 
enclA   Y          (hostA hostB hostD)   enclosure 
enclB   N          (hostC hostE)         enclosure 
End HostGroup
The following commands display condensed host information:
bhosts
bhosts -w
bjobs
bjobs -w
Use bmgroup -l to see whether host groups are condensed or not.
Import external host groups (egroup)
When the membership of a compute unit changes frequently, or when the compute unit contains a large number of members, you can use an
external executable called egroup to retrieve a list of members rather than having to conﬁgure the membership manually. You can write a site-
speciﬁc egroup executable that retrieves compute unit names and the hosts that belong to each group, and compute units of the ﬁnest granularity
can contain egroups as members.
For information about how to use the external host and user groups feature, see External host and user groups.
Use compute units with advance reservation
When running exclusive compute unit jobs (with the resource requirement cu[excl]), an advance reservation can affect hosts outside the advance
reservation but in the same compute unit.
An exclusive compute unit job dispatched to a host inside the advance reservation will lock the entire compute unit, including any hosts
outside the advance reservation.
An exclusive compute unit job dispatched to a host outside the advance reservation will lock the entire compute unit, including any hosts
inside the advance reservation.
Ideally all hosts belonging to a compute unit should be inside or outside of an advance reservation.
Control processor allocation across hosts
Sometimes you need to control how the selected processors for a parallel job are distributed across the hosts in the cluster.
You can control this at the job level or at the queue level. The queue speciﬁcation is ignored if your job speciﬁes its own locality.
Specify parallel job locality at the job level
696    IBM Spectrum LSF

By default, LSF does allocate the required processors for the job from the available set of processors.
A parallel job may span multiple hosts, with a speciﬁable number of processes allocated to each host. A job may be scheduled on to a single
multiprocessor host to take advantage of its efﬁcient shared memory, or spread out on to multiple hosts to take advantage of their aggregate
memory and swap space. Flexible spanning may also be used to achieve parallel I/O.
You are able to specify “select all the processors for this parallel batch job on the same host”, or “do not choose more than n processors on one host”
by using the span section in the resource requirement string (bsub -R or RES_REQ in the queue deﬁnition in lsb.queues).
If PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the span string is used to control the number of job slots instead of processors.
Syntax
The span string supports the following syntax:
span[hosts=1]
Indicates that all the processors allocated to this job must be on the same host.
span[ptile=value]
Indicates the number of processors on each host that should be allocated to the job, where value is one of the following:
Default ptile value, speciﬁed by n processors. In the following example, the job requests 4 processors on each available host,
regardless of how many processors the host has:
span[ptile=4] 
Predeﬁned ptile value, speciﬁed by ’!’. The following example uses the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit lsb.hosts (MXJ per host
type/model) as its value:
span[ptile='!'] 
Tip:
If the host or host type/model does not deﬁne MXJ, the default predeﬁned ptile value is 1.
Predeﬁned ptile value with optional multiple ptile values, per host type or host model:
For host type, you must specify same[type] in the resource requirement. In the following example, the job requests 8
processors on a host of type HP , and 2 processors on a host of type LINUX, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host types:
span[ptile='!',HP:8,LINUX:2] same[type] 
For host model, you must specify same[model] in the resource requirement. In the following example, the job requests 4
processors on hosts of model PC1133, and 2 processors on hosts of model PC233, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host models:
span[ptile='!',PC1133:4,PC233:2] same[model] 
span[hosts=-1]
Disables span setting in the queue. LSF allocates the required processors for the job from the available set of processors.
For example,
bsub -q super -R "span[hosts=-1]" -n 5 sleep 180
Specify multiple ptile values
In a span string with multiple ptile values, you must specify a predeﬁned default value (ptile=’!’) and either host model or host type.
You can specify both type and model in the span section in the resource requirement string, but the ptile values must be the same type.
If you specify same[type:model], you cannot specify a predeﬁned ptile value (!) in the span section.
Restriction:
Under bash 3.0, the exclamation mark (!) is not interpreted correctly by the shell. To use predeﬁned ptile value (ptile='!'), use the +H option to
disable '!' style history substitution in bash (sh +H).
LINUX and HP are both host types and can appear in the same span string. The following span string is valid:
same[type] span[ptile='!',LINUX:2,HP:4] 
PC233 and PC1133 are both host models and can appear in the same span string. The following span string is valid:
same[model] span[ptile='!',PC233:2,PC1133:4] 
You cannot mix host model and host type in the same span string. The following span strings are not correct:
IBM Spectrum LSF 697

span[ptile='!',LINUX:2,PC1133:4] same[model] 
span[ptile='!',LINUX:2,PC1133:4] same[type] 
The LINUX host type and PC1133 host model cannot appear in the same span string.
Multiple ptile values for a host type
For host type, you must specify same[type] in the resource requirement. For example:
span[ptile='!',HP:8,SOL:8,LINUX:2] same[type] 
The job requests 8 processors on a host of type HP or SOL, and 2 processors on a host of type LINUX, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host types.
Multiple ptile values for a host model
For host model, you must specify same[model] in the resource requirement. For example:
span[ptile='!',PC1133:4,PC233:2] same[model] 
The job requests 4 processors on hosts of model PC1133, and 2 processors on hosts of model PC233, and the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in
lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host models.
Examples
bsub -n 4 -R "span[hosts=1]" myjob 
Runs the job on a host that has at least 4 processors currently eligible to run the 4 components of this job.
bsub -n 4 -R "span[ptile=2]" myjob 
Runs the job on 2 hosts, using 2 processors on each host. Each host may have more than 2 processors available.
bsub -n 4 -R "span[ptile=3]" myjob 
Runs the job on 2 hosts, using 3 processors on the ﬁrst host and 1 processor on the second host.
bsub -n 4 -R "span[ptile=1]" myjob 
Runs the job on 4 hosts, even though some of the 4 hosts may have more than one processor currently available.
bsub -n 4 -R "type==any same[type] span[ptile='!',LINUX:2,HP:4]" myjob 
Submits myjob to request 4 processors running on 2 hosts of type LINUX (2 processors per host), or a single host of type HP, or for other host types,
the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in lsb.hosts (MXJ).
bsub -n 16 -R "type==any same[type] span[ptile='!',HP:8,SOL:8,LINUX:2]" myjob 
Submits myjob to request 16 processors on 2 hosts of type HP or SOL (8 processors per hosts), or on 8 hosts of type LINUX (2 processors per host),
or the predeﬁned maximum job slot limit in lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host types.
bsub -n 4 -R "same[model] span[ptile='!',PC1133:4,PC233:2]" myjob 
Submits myjob to request a single host of model PC1133 (4 processors), or 2 hosts of model PC233 (2 processors per host), or the predeﬁned
maximum job slot limit in lsb.hosts (MXJ) for other host models.
Specify parallel job locality at the queue level
The queue may also deﬁne the locality for parallel jobs using the RES_REQ parameter.
Run parallel processes on homogeneous hosts
Parallel jobs run on multiple hosts. If your cluster has heterogeneous hosts some processes from a parallel job may for example, run on Solaris.
However, for performance reasons you may want all processes of a job to run on the same type of host instead of having some processes run on one
type of host and others on another type of host.
You can use the same section in the resource requirement string to indicate to LSF that processes are to run on one type or model of host. You can
also use a custom resource to deﬁne the criteria for homogeneous hosts.
Run all parallel processes on the same host type
bsub -n 4 -R"select[type==HP6 || type==SOL11] same[type]" myjob
Allocate 4 processors on the same host type: either HP, or Solaris 11, but not both.
698    IBM Spectrum LSF

Run all parallel processes on the same host type and model
bsub -n 6 -R"select[type==any] same[type:model]" myjob
Allocate 6 processors on any host type or model as long as all the processors are on the same host type and model.
Run all parallel processes on hosts in the same high-speed connection group
bsub -n 12 -R "select[type==any && (hgconnect==hg1 | 
| hgconnect==hg2 || hgconnect==hg3)] same[hgconnect:type]" myjob
For performance reasons, you want to have LSF allocate 12 processors on hosts in high-speed connection group hg1, hg2, or hg3, but not across
hosts in hg1, hg2 or hg3 at the same time. You also want hosts that are chosen to be of the same host type.
This example reflects a network in which network connections among hosts in the same group are high-speed, and network connections between
host groups are low-speed.
In order to specify this, you create a custom resource hgconnect in lsf.shared.
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME    TYPE    INTERVAL     INCREASING      RELEASE      DESCRIPTION 
hgconnect       STRING        ()             ()           ()      (OS release) 
... 
End Resource
In the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle, identify groups of hosts that share high-speed connections.
Begin ResourceMap 
RESOURCENAME    LOCATION 
hgconnect       (hg1@[hostA hostB] hg2@[hostD hostE] hg3@[hostF hostG hostX]) 
End ResourceMap
If you want to specify the same resource requirement at the queue level, deﬁne a custom resource in lsf.shared as in the previous example, map
hosts to high-speed connection groups in lsf.cluster.cluster_name, and deﬁne the following queue in lsb.queues:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = My_test  
PRIORITY = 30  
NICE = 20 RES_REQ = "select[mem > 1000 && type==any && (hgconnect==hg1 ||  
hgconnect==hg2 || hgconnect=hg3)]same[hgconnect:type]" 
DESCRIPTION = either hg1 or hg2 or hg3 
End Queue
This example allocates processors on hosts that:
Have more than 1000 MB in memory
Are of the same host type
Are in high-speed connection group hg1 or hg2 or hg3
Limit the number of processors allocated
Use the TASKLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues or lsb.applications to limit the number of tasks that can be allocated to a parallel job.
Syntax
TASKLIMIT = [minimum_limit [default_limit]] maximum_limit
All limits must be positive numbers greater than or equal to 1 that satisfy the following relationship:
1 <= minimum <= default <= maximum
You can specify up to three limits in the TASKLIMIT parameter:
If you specify ... Then ...
One limit It is the maximum task limit. The minimum and default limits are set to 1.
Two limits The ﬁrst is the minimum task limit, and the second is the maximum. The default is set equal to the minimum.
The minimum must be less than or equal to the maximum.
Three limits The ﬁrst is the minimum task limit, the second is the default task limit, and the third is the maximum.
The minimum must be less than the default and the maximum.
IBM Spectrum LSF 699

How TASKLIMIT affects submission of parallel jobs
The -n option of bsub speciﬁes the number of tasks to be used by a parallel job, subject to the task limits of the queue or application proﬁle.
Jobs that specify fewer tasks than the minimum TASKLIMIT or more tasks than the maximum TASKLIMIT are rejected.
If a default value for TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed, jobs submitted without specifying -n use the default number of TASKLIMIT. If the queue or application
proﬁle has only minimum and maximum values for TASKLIMIT, the number of tasks is equal to the minimum value. If only a maximum value for
TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed, or no TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed, the number of processors is equal to 1.
Incorrect task limits are ignored, and a warning message is displayed when LSF is reconﬁgured or restarted. A warning message is also logged to the
mbatchd log ﬁle when LSF is started.
Change TASKLIMIT
If you change the TASKLIMIT parameter, the new task limit does not affect running jobs. Pending jobs with no task requirements use the new default
TASKLIMIT value. If the pending job does not satisfy the new task limits, it remains in PEND state, and the pending reason changes to the following:
Job no longer satisfies TASKLIMIT configuration 
If the TASKLIMIT speciﬁcation is incorrect (for example, too many parameters), a reconﬁguration error message is issued. Reconﬁguration proceeds
and the incorrect TASKLIMIT is ignored.
Resizable jobs
Resizable job allocation requests obey the TASKLIMIT deﬁnition in both application proﬁles and queues. When the maximum job task request is
greater than the maximum task deﬁnition in TASKLIMIT, LSF chooses the minimum value of both. For example, if a job asks for -n 1,4, but
TASKLIMIT is deﬁned as 2 2 3, the maximum task request for the job is 3 rather than 4.
Automatic queue selection
When you submit a parallel job without specifying a queue name, LSF automatically selects the most suitable queue from the queues listed in the
DEFAULT_QUEUE parameter in lsb.params or the LSB_DEFAULTQUEUE environment variable. Automatic queue selection takes into account any
maximum and minimum TASKLIMIT values for the queues available for automatic selection.
If you specify -n min_task,max_task, but do not specify a queue, the ﬁrst queue that satisﬁes the task requirements of the job is used. If no queue
satisﬁes the task requirements, the job is rejected.
For example, queues with the following TASKLIMIT values are deﬁned in lsb.queues:
queueA with TASKLIMIT=1 1 1
queueB with TASKLIMIT=2 2 2
queueC with TASKLIMIT=4 4 4
queueD with TASKLIMIT=8 8 8
queueE with TASKLIMIT=16 16 16
In lsb.params: DEFAULT_QUEUE=queueA queueB queueC queueD queueE
For the following jobs:
bsub -n 8 myjob
LSF automatically selects queueD to run myjob.
bsub -n 5 myjob
Job myjob fails because no default queue has the correct number of processors.
Maximum task limit
TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed in the default queue in lsb.queues as:
TASKLIMIT = 3 
The maximum number of tasks that can be allocated for this queue is 3.
Example Description
bsub -n 2 myjob The job myjob has 2 tasks.
700    IBM Spectrum LSF

Example Description
bsub -n 4 myjob The job myjob is rejected from the queue because it requires more than the maximum number of tasks conﬁgured for the
queue (3).
bsub -n 2,3
myjobThe job myjob runs on 2 or 3 processors.
bsub -n 2,5
myjobThe job myjob runs on 2 or 3 processors, depending on how many slots are currently available on the host.
bsub myjob No default or minimum is conﬁgured, so the job myjob runs on 1 processor.
Minimum and maximum task limits
TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed in lsb.queues as:
TASKLIMIT = 3 8 
The minimum number of tasks that can be allocated for this queue is 3 and the maximum number of tasks that can be allocated for this queue is 8.
Example Description
bsub -n 5
myjobThe job myjob has 5 tasks.
bsub -n 2
myjobThe job myjob is rejected from the queue because the number of processors requested is less than the minimum number of
processors conﬁgured for the queue (3).
bsub -n 4,5
myjobThe job myjob runs on 4 or 5 processors.
bsub -n 2,6
myjobThe job myjob runs on 3 to 6 processors.
bsub -n 4,9
myjobThe job myjob runs on 4 to 8 processors.
bsub myjob The default number of processors is equal to the minimum number (3). The job myjob runs on 3 processors.
Minimum, default, and maximum task limits
TASKLIMIT is speciﬁed in lsb.queues as:
TASKLIMIT = 4 6 9 
Minimum number of tasks that can be allocated for this queue is 4
Default number of tasks for the queue is 6
Maximum number of tasks that can be allocated for this queue is 9
Example Description
bsub myjob Because a default number of tasks is conﬁgured, the job myjob runs on 6 processors.
Limit the number of allocated hosts
Use the HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB parameter in lsb.queues to limit the number of hosts that a job can use. For example, if a user submits a parallel job
using bsub -n 1,4096 -R "span[ptile=1]", this job requests 4096 hosts from the cluster. If you specify a limit of 20 hosts per job, a user
submitting a job requesting 4096 hosts will only be allowed to use 20 hosts.
Syntax
HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB = integer
Specify the maximum number of hosts that a job can use. If the number of hosts requested for a parallel job exceeds this limit, the parallel job will
pend.
How HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB affects submission of parallel jobs
span[ptile=value] resource requirements
If a parallel job is submitted with the span[ptile=processors_per_host] resource requirement, the exact number of hosts requested is
known (by dividing the number of processors by the processors per host). The job is rejected if the number of hosts requested exceeds the
HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB value. Other commands that specify a span[ptile=processors_per_host] resource requirement (such as bmod)
are also subjected to this per-job host limit.
IBM Spectrum LSF 701

Compound resource requirements
If there is any part of the compound resource requirement that does not have a ptile speciﬁcation, that part is considered to have a
minimum of one host requested (before multiplying) when calculating the number of hosts requested.
For example:
2*{span[ptile=1]}+3*{-} is considered to have a minimum of three hosts requested because the last part uses at least three hosts.
2*{-}+3*{-}+4*{-} is considered to have a minimum of three hosts requested.
Alternative resource requirements
The smallest calculated number of hosts for all sets of resource requirements is used to compare to requested number of hosts with the per-
job host limit. Any sets of resource requirements containing compound resource requirements, are calculated as compound resource
requirements (that is, if there is any part of the compound resource requirement that does not have a ptile speciﬁcation, that part is
considered to have a minimum of one host requested, before multiplying, when calculating the number of hosts requested).
If the number of hosts requested in a parallel job is unknown during the submission stage, the per-job host limit does not apply and the job
submission is accepted.
The per-job host limit is veriﬁed during resource allocation. If the per-job host limit is exceeded and the minimum number of requested hosts cannot
be satisﬁed, the parallel job will pend.
This parameter does not stop the parallel job from resuming even if the job's host allocation exceeds the per-job host limit speciﬁed in this
parameter.
If a parallel job is submitted under a range of the number of slots (bsub -n "min, max"), the per-job host limit applies to the minimum number of
requested slots. That is, if the minimum number of requested slots is satisﬁed under the per-job host limit, the job submission is accepted.
Note: If you do not use a ptile speciﬁcation in your resource requirements, LSF may have a false scheduling failure (that is, LSF may fail to ﬁnd an
allocation for a parallel job), even if a valid allocation exists. This occurs due to the computational complexity of ﬁnding an allocation with complex
resource and limit relationships.
For example, hostA has two slots available, hostB and hostC have four slots available, and hostD has eight slots available, and
HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB=2. If you submit a job that requires ten slots and no ptile speciﬁcation, the scheduler will determine that selecting hostA,
hostB, and hostC will satisfy the requirements, but since this requires three hosts, the job will pend. This is a false scheduling failure because
selecting hostA and hostD would satisfy this requirement.
To avoid false scheduling failure when HOSTLIMIT_PER_JOB is speciﬁed, submit jobs with the ptile resource requirement or add order[slots]
to the resource requirements.
Reserve processors
About processor reservation
When parallel jobs have to compete with sequential jobs for job slots, the slots that become available are likely to be taken immediately by a
sequential job. Parallel jobs need multiple job slots to be available before they can be dispatched. If the cluster is always busy, a large parallel job
could be pending indeﬁnitely. The more processors a parallel job requires, the worse the problem is.
Processor reservation solves this problem by reserving job slots as they become available, until there are enough reserved job slots to run the
parallel job.
You might want to conﬁgure processor reservation if your cluster has a lot of sequential jobs that compete for job slots with parallel jobs.
How processor reservation works
Processor reservation is disabled by default.
If processor reservation is enabled, and a parallel job cannot be dispatched because there are not enough job slots to satisfy its minimum processor
requirements, the job slots that are currently available is reserved and accumulated.
A reserved job slot is unavailable to any other job. To avoid deadlock situations in which the system reserves job slots for multiple parallel jobs and
none of them can acquire sufﬁcient resources to start, a parallel job gives up all its reserved job slots if it has not accumulated enough to start within
a speciﬁed time. The reservation time starts from the time the ﬁrst slot is reserved. When the reservation time expires, the job cannot reserve any
slots for one scheduling cycle, but then the reservation process can begin again.
If you specify ﬁrst execution host candidates at the job or queue level, LSF tries to reserve a job slot on the ﬁrst execution host. If LSF cannot reserve
a ﬁrst execution host job slot, it does not reserve slots on any other hosts.
Conﬁguring processor reservation
 
Conﬁguring processor reservation
702    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
To enable processor reservation, set SLOT_RESERVE in lsb.queues and specify the reservation time.
A job cannot hold any reserved slots after its reservation time expires.
SLOT_RESERVE=MAX_RESERVE_TIME[n].
where n is an integer by which to multiply MBD_SLEEP_TIME. MBD_SLEEP_TIME is deﬁned in lsb.params; the default value is 60 seconds.
For example:
Begin Queue 
. 
PJOB_LIMIT=1 
SLOT_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[5] 
. 
End Queue
In this example, if MBD_SLEEP_TIME is 60 seconds, a job can reserve job slots for 5 minutes. If MBD_SLEEP_TIME is 30 seconds, a job can reserve
job slots for 5 *30= 150 seconds, or 2.5 minutes.
Reserve memory for pending parallel jobs
By default, the rusage string reserves resources for running jobs. Because resources are not reserved for pending jobs, some memory-intensive jobs
could be pending indeﬁnitely because smaller jobs take the resources immediately before the larger jobs can start running. The more memory a job
requires, the worse the problem is.
Memory reservation for pending jobs solves this problem by reserving memory as it becomes available, until the total required memory speciﬁed on
the rusage string is accumulated and the job can start. Use memory reservation for pending jobs if memory-intensive jobs often compete for memory
with smaller jobs in your cluster.
Unlike slot reservation, which only applies to parallel jobs, memory reservation applies to both sequential and parallel jobs.
Conﬁguring memory reservation for pending parallel jobs
 Enabling per-task memory reservation
 
Conﬁguring memory reservation for pending parallel jobs
About this task
You can reserve host memory for pending jobs.
Procedure
Set the RESOURCE_RESERVE parameter in a queue deﬁned in lsb.queues.
The RESOURCE_RESERVE parameter overrides the SLOT_RESERVE parameter. If both RESOURCE_RESERVE and SLOT_RESERVE are deﬁned in the
same queue, job slot reservation and memory reservation are enabled and an error is displayed when the cluster is reconﬁgured. SLOT_RESERVE is
ignored. Backﬁll on memory may still take place.
The following queue enables both memory reservation and backﬁll in the same queue:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = reservation_backfill 
DESCRIPTION = For resource reservation and backfill 
PRIORITY = 40 
RESOURCE_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[20] 
BACKFILL = Y 
End Queue
Enabling per-task memory reservation
About this task
By default, memory is reserved for parallel jobs on a per-host basis. For example, by default, the command:
IBM Spectrum LSF 703

bsub -n 4 -R "rusage[mem=500]" -q reservation myjob
requires the job to reserve 500 MB on each host where the job runs.
Procedure
To enable per-task memory reservation, deﬁne RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK=y in lsb.params. In this example, if per-task reservation is enabled,
the job must reserve 500 MB of memory for each task (4 * 500 = 2 GB) on the host in order to run.
Backﬁll scheduling
By default, a reserved job slot cannot be used by another job. To make better use of resources and improve performance of LSF, you can conﬁgure
backﬁll scheduling.
About backﬁll scheduling
Backﬁll scheduling allows other jobs to use the reserved job slots, as long as the other jobs do not delay the start of another job. Back ﬁlling, together
with processor reservation, allows large parallel jobs to run while not under utilizing resources.
In a busy cluster, processor reservation helps to schedule large parallel jobs sooner. However, by default, reserved processors remain idle until the
large job starts. This degrades the performance of LSF because the reserved resources are idle while jobs are waiting in the queue.
Backﬁll scheduling allows the reserved job slots to be used by small jobs that can run and ﬁnish before the large job starts. This improves the
performance of LSF because it increases the utilization of resources.
How back ﬁlling works
For backﬁll scheduling, LSF assumes that a job can run until its run limit expires. Backﬁll scheduling works most efﬁciently when all the jobs in the
cluster have a run limit.
Since jobs with a shorter run limit have more chance of being scheduled as backﬁll jobs, users who specify appropriate run limits in a backﬁll queue
is rewarded by improved turnaround time.
Once the big parallel job has reserved sufﬁcient job slots, LSF calculates the start time of the big job, based on the run limits of the jobs currently
running in the reserved slots. LSF cannot backﬁll if the big job is waiting for a job that has no run limit deﬁned.
If LSF can backﬁll the idle job slots, only jobs with run limits that expire before the start time of the big job is allowed to use the reserved job slots.
LSF cannot backﬁll with a job that has no run limit.
Example
704    IBM Spectrum LSF

In this scenario, assume the cluster consists of a 4-CPU multiprocessor host.
1. A sequential job (job1) with a run limit of 2 hours is submitted and gets started at 8:00 am (ﬁgure a).
2. Shortly after, a parallel job (job2) requiring all 4 CPUs is submitted. It cannot start right away because job1 is using one CPU, so it reserves
the remaining 3 processors (ﬁgure b).
3. At 8:30 am, another parallel job (job3) is submitted requiring only two processors and with a run limit of 1 hour. Since job2 cannot start until
10:00am (when job1 ﬁnishes), its reserved processors can be backﬁlled by job3 (ﬁgure c). Therefore job3 can complete before job2's start
time, making use of the idle processors.
4. Job3 ﬁnishes at 9:30am and job1 at 10:00am, allowing job2 to start shortly after 10:00am. In this example, if job3's run limit was 2 hours,
it would not be able to backﬁll job2's reserved slots, and would have to run after job2 ﬁnishes.
Limitations
A job does not have an estimated start time immediately after mbatchd is reconﬁgured.
Back ﬁlling and job slot limits
A backﬁll job borrows a job slot that is already taken by another job. The backﬁll job does not run at the same time as the job that reserved the job
slot ﬁrst. Back ﬁlling can take place even if the job slot limits for a host or processor have been reached. Back ﬁlling cannot take place if the job slot
limits for users or queues have been reached.
Job resize allocation requests
Pending job resize allocation requests are supported by backﬁll policies. However, the run time of pending resize request is equal to the remaining
run time of the running re-sizable job. For example, if RUN LIMIT of a re-sizable job is 20 hours and 4 hours have already passed, the run time of
pending resize request is 16 hours.
Conﬁgure backﬁll scheduling
Backﬁll scheduling is enabled at the queue level. Only jobs in a backﬁll queue can backﬁll reserved job slots. If the backﬁll queue also allows
processor reservation, then back ﬁlling can occur among jobs within the same queue.
IBM Spectrum LSF 705

Conﬁguring a backﬁll queue
Enforce run limits
Backﬁll scheduling requires all jobs to specify a duration. If you specify a run time limit using the command line bsub -W option or by deﬁning
the RUNLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues or lsb.applications, LSF uses that value as a hard limit and terminates jobs that exceed the speciﬁed
duration. Alternatively, you can specify an estimated duration by deﬁning the RUNTIME parameter in lsb.applications. LSF uses the RUNTIME
estimate for scheduling purposes only, and does not terminate jobs that exceed the RUNTIME duration.
Use backﬁll on memory
If BACKFILL is conﬁgured in a queue, and a run limit is speciﬁed with -W on bsub or with RUNLIMIT in the queue, backﬁll jobs can use the
accumulated memory reserved by the other jobs, as long as the backﬁll job can ﬁnish before the predicted start time of the jobs with the
reservation.
Use interruptible backﬁll
Interruptible backﬁll scheduling can improve cluster utilization by allowing reserved job slots to be used by low priority small jobs that are
terminated when the higher priority large jobs are about to start.
Submitting backﬁll jobs according to available slots
Conﬁguring a backﬁll queue
Procedure
1. To conﬁgure a backﬁll queue, deﬁne BACKFILL in lsb.queues.
2. Specify Y to enable back ﬁlling. To disable back ﬁlling, specify N or blank space.
BACKFILL=Y
Enforce run limits
Backﬁll scheduling requires all jobs to specify a duration. If you specify a run time limit using the command line bsub -W option or by deﬁning the
RUNLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues or lsb.applications, LSF uses that value as a hard limit and terminates jobs that exceed the speciﬁed duration.
Alternatively, you can specify an estimated duration by deﬁning the RUNTIME parameter in lsb.applications. LSF uses the RUNTIME estimate for
scheduling purposes only, and does not terminate jobs that exceed the RUNTIME duration.
Use backﬁll on memory
If BACKFILL is conﬁgured in a queue, and a run limit is speciﬁed with -W on bsub or with RUNLIMIT in the queue, backﬁll jobs can use the
accumulated memory reserved by the other jobs, as long as the backﬁll job can ﬁnish before the predicted start time of the jobs with the reservation.
Unlike slot reservation, which only applies to parallel jobs, backﬁll on memory applies to sequential and parallel jobs.
The following queue enables both memory reservation and backﬁll on memory in the same queue:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = reservation_backfill 
DESCRIPTION = For resource reservation and backfill 
PRIORITY = 40 
RESOURCE_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[20] 
BACKFILL = Y 
End Queue
Examples of memory reservation and backﬁll on memory
The following queues are deﬁned in lsb.queues:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = reservation 
DESCRIPTION = For resource reservation 
PRIORITY=40 
RESOURCE_RESERVE = MAX_RESERVE_TIME[20] 
End Queue 
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = backfill 
DESCRIPTION = For backfill scheduling 
PRIORITY = 30 
BACKFILL = y 
End Queue 
706    IBM Spectrum LSF

lsb.params
Per-slot memory reservation is enabled by RESOURCE_RESERVE_PER_TASK=y in lsb.params.
Assumptions
Assume one host in the cluster with 10 CPUs and 1 GB of free memory currently available.
Sequential jobs
Each of the following sequential jobs requires 400 MB of memory. The ﬁrst three jobs run for 300 minutes.
Job 1:
bsub -W 300 -R "rusage[mem=400]" -q reservation myjob1
The job starts running, using 400M of memory and one job slot.
Job 2:
Submitting a second job with same requirements get the same result.
Job 3:
Submitting a third job with same requirements reserves one job slot, and reserve all free memory, if the amount of free memory is between 20 MB
and 200 MB (some free memory may be used by the operating system or other software.)
Job 4:
bsub -W 400 -q backfill -R "rusage[mem=50]" myjob4 
The job keeps pending, since memory is reserved by job 3 and it runs longer than job 1 and job 2.
Job 5:
bsub -W 100 -q backfill -R "rusage[mem=50]" myjob5
The job starts running. It uses one free slot and memory reserved by job 3. If the job does not ﬁnish in 100 minutes, it is killed by LSF automatically.
Job 6:
bsub -W 100 -q backfill -R "rusage[mem=300]" myjob6
The job keeps pending with no resource reservation because it cannot get enough memory from the memory reserved by job 3.
Job 7:
bsub -W 100 -q backfill myjob7
The job starts running. LSF assumes it does not require any memory and enough job slots are free.
Parallel jobs
Each process of a parallel job requires 100 MB memory, and each parallel job needs 4 cpus. The ﬁrst two of the following parallel jobs run for 300
minutes.
Job 1:
bsub -W 300 -n 4 -R "rusage[mem=100]" -q reservation myJob1
The job starts running and use 4 slots and get 400MB memory.
Job 2:
Submitting a second job with same requirements gets the same result.
Job 3:
Submitting a third job with same requirements reserves 2 slots, and reserves all 200 MB of available memory, assuming no other applications are
running outside of LSF.
Job 4:
bsub -W 400 -q backfill -R "rusage[mem=50]" myJob4
The job keeps pending since all available memory is already reserved by job 3. It runs longer than job 1 and job 2, so no backﬁll happens.
IBM Spectrum LSF 707

Job 5:
bsub -W 100 -q backfill -R "rusage[mem=50]" myJob5
This job starts running. It can backﬁll the slot and memory reserved by job 3. If the job does not ﬁnish in 100 minutes, it is killed by LSF
automatically.
Use interruptible backﬁll
Interruptible backﬁll scheduling can improve cluster utilization by allowing reserved job slots to be used by low priority small jobs that are
terminated when the higher priority large jobs are about to start.
An interruptible backﬁll job:
Starts as a regular job and is killed when it exceeds the queue runtime limit, or
Is started for backﬁll whenever there is a backﬁll time slice longer than the speciﬁed minimal time, and killed before the slot-reservation job is
about to start. This applies to compute-intensive serial or single-node parallel jobs that can run a long time, yet be able to checkpoint or
resume from an arbitrary computation point.
Resource allocation diagram
Job life cycle
1. Jobs are submitted to a queue conﬁgured for interruptible backﬁll. The job runtime requirement is ignored.
2. Job is scheduled as either regular job or backﬁll job.
3. The queue runtime limit is applied to the regularly scheduled job.
4. In backﬁll phase, the job is considered for run on any reserved resource, which duration is longer than the minimal time slice conﬁgured for
the queue. The job runtime limit is set in such way, that the job releases the resource before it is needed by the slot reserving job.
5. The job runs in a regular manner. It is killed upon reaching its runtime limit, and re-queued for the next run. Re-queueing must be explicitly
conﬁgured in the queue.
Assumptions and limitations
The interruptible backﬁll job holds the slot-reserving job start until its calculated start time, in the same way as a regular backﬁll job. The
interruptible backﬁll job is killed when its run limit expires.
Killing other running jobs prematurely does not affect the calculated run limit of an interruptible backﬁll job. Slot-reserving jobs do not start
sooner.
While the queue is checked for the consistency of interruptible backﬁll, backﬁll and runtime speciﬁcations, the re-queue exit value clause is
not veriﬁed, nor executed automatically. Conﬁgure re-queue exit values according to your site policies.
When using the LSF multicluster capability, bhist does not display interruptible backﬁll information for remote clusters.
A migrated job belonging to an interruptible backﬁll queue is migrated as if LSB_MIG2PEND is set.
Interruptible backﬁll is disabled for re-sizable jobs. A re-sizable job can be submitted into interruptible backﬁll queue, but the job cannot be
re-sized.
708    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguring an interruptible backﬁll queue
Conﬁguring an interruptible backﬁll queue
Procedure
Conﬁgure INTERRUPTIBLE_BACKFILL=seconds in the lowest priority queue in the cluster. There can only be one interruptible backﬁll queue in the
cluster.
Specify the minimum number of seconds for the job to be considered for backﬁlling. This minimal time slice depends on the speciﬁc job properties; it
must be longer than at least one useful iteration of the job. Multiple queues may be created if a site has jobs of distinctively different classes.
For example:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME   = background 
# REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES (set to whatever needed) 
DESCRIPTION  = Interruptible Backfill queue 
BACKFILL = Y 
INTERRUPTIBLE_BACKFILL = 1 
RUNLIMIT = 10 
PRIORITY = 1 
End Queue
Interruptible backﬁll is disabled if BACKFILL and RUNLIMIT are not conﬁgured in the queue.
The value of INTERRUPTIBLE_BACKFILL is the minimal time slice in seconds for a job to be considered for backﬁll. The value depends on the
speciﬁc job properties; it must be longer than at least one useful iteration of the job. Multiple queues may be created for different classes of jobs.
BACKFILL and RUNLIMIT must be conﬁgured in the queue.
RUNLIMIT corresponds to a maximum time slice for backﬁll, and should be conﬁgured so that the wait period for the new jobs submitted to the
queue is acceptable to users. 10 minutes of runtime is a common value.
You should conﬁgure REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES for the queue so that resubmission is automatic. In order to terminate completely, jobs must have
speciﬁc exit values:
If jobs are checkpoint-able, use their checkpoint exit value.
If jobs periodically save data on their own, use the SIGTERM exit value.
Submitting backﬁll jobs according to available slots
Procedure
1. Use bslots to display job slots available for backﬁll jobs.
2. Submit a job to a backﬁll queue. Specify a runtime limit and the number of processors required that are within the availability shown by bslots.
Results
Submitting a job according to the backﬁll slot availability shown by bslots does not guarantee that the job is back ﬁlled successfully. The slots may
not be available by the time job is actually scheduled, or the job cannot be dispatched because other resource requirements are not satisﬁed.
How deadline constraint scheduling works for parallel jobs
Deadline constraint scheduling is enabled by default.
If deadline constraint scheduling is enabled and a parallel job has a CPU limit but no run limit, LSF considers the number of processors when
calculating how long the job takes.
LSF assumes that the minimum number of processors are used, and that they are all the same speed as the candidate host. If the job cannot ﬁnish
under these conditions, LSF does not place the job.
The formula is:
(deadline time - current time) > (CPU limit on candidate host / minimum number of processors)
IBM Spectrum LSF 709

Optimized preemption of parallel jobs
You can conﬁgure preemption for parallel jobs to reduce the number of jobs suspended in order to run a large parallel job.
When a high-priority parallel job preempts multiple low-priority parallel jobs, sometimes LSF preempts more low-priority jobs than are necessary to
release sufﬁcient job slots to start the high-priority job.
The PREEMPT_FOR parameter in lsb.params with the MINI_JOB keyword enables the optimized preemption of parallel jobs, so LSF preempts fewer
of the low-priority parallel jobs.
Enabling the feature only improves the efﬁciency in cases where both preemptive and preempted jobs are parallel jobs.
How optimized preemption works
When you run many parallel jobs in your cluster, and parallel jobs preempt other parallel jobs, you can enable a feature to optimize the preemption
mechanism among parallel jobs.
By default, LSF can over-preempt parallel jobs. When a high-priority parallel job preempts multiple low-priority parallel jobs, sometimes LSF
preempts more low-priority jobs than are necessary to release sufﬁcient job slots to start the high-priority job. The optimized preemption mechanism
reduces the number of jobs that are preempted.
Enabling the feature only improves the efﬁciency in cases where both preemptive and preempted jobs are parallel jobs. Enabling or disabling this
feature has no effect on the scheduling of jobs that require only a single processor.
Conﬁguring optimized preemption
 
Conﬁguring optimized preemption
Procedure
Use the PREEMPT_FOR parameter in lsb.params and specify the keyword MINI_JOB to conﬁgure optimized preemption at the cluster level.
If the parameter is already set, the MINI_JOB keyword can be used along with other keywords; the other keywords do not enable or disable the
optimized preemption mechanism.
Controlling CPU and memory afﬁnity
IBM® Spectrum LSF can schedule jobs that are afﬁnity aware. This allows jobs to take advantage of different levels of processing units (NUMA nodes,
sockets, cores, and threads). Afﬁnity scheduling is supported only on Linux and Power 7 and Power 8 hosts. Afﬁnity scheduling is supported in LSF
Standard Edition and LSF Advanced Edition. Afﬁnity scheduling is not supported on LSF Express Edition.
An afﬁnity resource requirement string speciﬁes CPU or memory binding requirements for the tasks of jobs requiring topology-aware scheduling. An
afﬁnity[] resource requirement section controls CPU and memory resource allocations and speciﬁes the distribution of processor units within a host
according to the hardware topology information that LSF collects. The syntax supports basic afﬁnity requirements for sequential jobs, as well as very
complex task afﬁnity requirements for parallel jobs.
afﬁnity[] sections are accepted by bsub -R, and by bmod -R for non-running jobs, and can be speciﬁed in the RES_REQ parameter in lsb.applications
and lsb.queues. Job-level afﬁnity resource requirements take precedence over application-level requirements, which in turn override queue-level
requirements.
You can use bmod to modify afﬁnity resource requirements. After using bmod to modify memory resource usage of a running job with afﬁnity
requirements, bhosts -l -aff may show some inconsistencies between host-level memory and available memory in NUMA nodes. The modiﬁed
memory resource for afﬁnity binding requirements take effect on the afﬁnity level only after re-queuing the running job and the next time mbschd
schedules it; it takes effect immediately for host level memory allocation.
Enabling afﬁnity scheduling
Enable CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling with the AFFINITY keyword in lsb.hosts.
Make sure that the afﬁnity scheduling plugin schmod_afﬁnity is deﬁned in lsb.modules.
Begin PluginModule 
SCH_PLUGIN         RB_PLUGIN      SCH_DISABLE_PHASES 
schmod_default       ()              () 
... 
710    IBM Spectrum LSF

schmod_affinity      ()              () 
End PluginModule
Limitations and known issues
CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling has the following limitations:
Afﬁnity resources cannot be released during preemption, so you should conﬁgure mem as a preemptable resource in lsb.params.
When a job with afﬁnity resources allocated has been stopped with bstop, the allocated afﬁnity resources (thread, core, socket, NUMA node,
NUMA memory) will not be released.
Afﬁnity scheduling is disabled for hosts with cpuset scheduling enabled, and on Cray Linux hosts.
Afﬁnity scheduling does not support NUMA level memory decay.
When reservation is enabled, afﬁnity reservation allocations appear as part of the allocated resources in bhosts -aff.
Jobs that are submitted with a membind=localprefer binding policy may over-commit the memory of the NUMA node they are allocated to .
bhosts -aff output may occasionally show the total allocated memory on the NUMA nodes of a host as exceeding the maximum memory of the
host, this is because the reservations that show in bhosts -aff over-commit the NUMA node. However, LSF will never allow the allocation of
running jobs on a host to exceed the maximum memory of a host.
When reservation is enabled, and an afﬁnity job requests enough resources to consume an entire node in the host topology. (for example,
enough cores to consume an entire socket), LSF will not reserve the socket for the job if there are any jobs running on its cores. In a situation
when there are always smaller jobs running consuming cores, then larger jobs that require entire sockets will not be able to reserve resources.
The workaround is to require that all jobs have estimated run times, and to use time-based reservation.
Submit jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements
 Submit jobs for CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling by specifying an afﬁnity[] section either in the bsub -R command, to a queue deﬁned in
the lsb.queues ﬁle or to an application proﬁle with a RES_REQ parameter containing and afﬁnity[] section.
Managing jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements
 You can view resources allocated for jobs and tasks with CPU and memory afﬁnity resource requirements with the -l -aff option of bjobs,
bhist, and bacct. Use bhosts -aff to view host resources allocated for afﬁnity jobs.
Afﬁnity preemption
 To enable afﬁnity preemption, set the PREEMPT_JOBTYPE = AFFINITY parameter in the Parameters section of the lsb.params ﬁle. By default,
afﬁnity resources are not preemptable.
Afﬁnity binding based on Linux cgroup cpuset subsystem
 LSF can enforce CPU binding on systems that support the Linux cgroup cpuset subsystem. When CPU afﬁnity binding through Linux cgroups is
enabled, LSF will create a cpuset to contain job processes if the job has afﬁnity resource requirements, so that the job processes cannot
escape from the allocated CPUs. Each afﬁnity job cpuset includes only the CPU and memory nodes that LSF distributes. Linux cgroup cpusets
are only created for afﬁnity jobs.
Portable hardware locality
 Portable Hardware Locality (hwloc) is an open source software package that is distributed under BSD license. It provides a portable
abstraction (across OS, versions, architectures, and so on) of the hierarchical topology of modern architectures, including NUMA memory
nodes, socket, shared caches, cores, and simultaneous multithreading (SMT). hwloc is integrated into LSF to detect hardware information,
and can support most of the platforms that LSF supports.
Submit jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements
Submit jobs for CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling by specifying an afﬁnity[] section either in the bsub -R command, to a queue deﬁned in the
lsb.queues ﬁle or to an application proﬁle with a RES_REQ parameter containing and afﬁnity[] section.
Tip: Starting in Fix Pack 14, you can conﬁgure the LSF_CGROUP_CORE_AUTO_CREATE parameter set to Y to enable LSF to automatically create Linux
cgroups for a job, without the need to specify afﬁnity[] requirements. With this setting, LSF automatically adds the "affinity[core(1)]" resource
requirement string to the bsub -R command whenever jobs are submitted.
The afﬁnity[] resource requirement string controls job slot and processor unit allocation and distribution within a host.
See Afﬁnity string for detailed syntax of the afﬁnity[] resource requirement string.
If the JOB_INCLUDE_POSTPROC=Y parameter is set in the lsb.params ﬁle, or the LSB_JOB_INCLUDE_POSTPROC=Y environment variable is set in
the job environment, LSF does not release afﬁnity resources until post-execution processing has ﬁnished, since slots are still occupied by the job
during post-execution processing. For interactive jobs, the interactive job will be ﬁnished before the post-execution completes.
Examples: processor unit allocation requests
The following examples illustrate afﬁnity jobs that request speciﬁc processor unit allocations and task distributions.
The following job asks for six slots and runs within single host. Each slot maps to one core. LSF tries to pack six cores as close as possible on single
NUMA or socket. If the task distribution cannot be satisﬁed, the job can not be started.
bsub -n 6 –R "span[hosts=1] affinity[core(1):distribute=pack]" myjob
IBM Spectrum LSF 711

The following job asks for six slots and runs within single host. Each slot maps to one core, but in this case it must be packed into a single socket,
otherwise, the job remains pending:
bsub -n 6 –R "span[hosts=1] affinity[core(1):distribute=pack(socket=1)]" myjob
The following Job asks for two slots on a single host. Each slot maps to two cores. Two cores for a single slot (task) must come from the same socket;
however, the other two cores for second slot (task) must be on different socket:
bsub -n 2 –R "span[hosts=1] affinity[core(2, same=socket, exclusive=(socket, injob))]" myjob
The following job speciﬁes that each task in the job requires two cores from the same socket. The allocated socket will be marked exclusive for all
other jobs. The task will be CPU bound to socket level. LSF attempts to distribute the tasks of the job so that they are balanced across all cores:
bsub -n 4 -R "affinity[core(2, same=socket, exclusive=(socket, alljobs)): cpubind=socket:distribute=balance]"
myjob
Examples: CPU and memory binding requests
You can submit afﬁnity jobs with CPU various binding and memory binding options. The following examples illustrate this.
In the following job, both tasks require ﬁve cores in the same NUMA node and binds the tasks on the NUMA node with memory mandatory binding:
bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(5,same=numa):cpubind=numa:membind=localonly]" myjob
The following job binds a multithread job on a single NUMA node:
bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(3,same=numa):cpubind=numa:membind=localprefer]" myjob
The following job distributes tasks across sockets. Each task needs two cores from the same socket and binds each task at the socket level. The
allocated socket is exclusive, so no other tasks can use it:
bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(2,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob|alljobs)): cpubind=socket]" myjob
The following job packs job tasks in one NUMA node:
bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(1,exclusive=(socket,injob)):distribute=pack(numa= 1)]" myjob
Each task needs one core and no other tasks from the same job will allocate CPUs from the same socket. LSF attempts to pack all tasks in the same
job to one NUMA node.
Submit jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements on IBM POWER8 systems
 Use the esub.p8aff external submission (esub) script to automatically generate the optimal job-level afﬁnity requirements for job
submissions on IBM POWER8 (ppc64le) systems.
Job execution environment for afﬁnity jobs
LSF sets several environment variables in the execution environment of each job and task. These are designed to integrate and work with IBM
Parallel Environment, and IBM Spectrum LSF MPI. However, these environment variables are available to all afﬁnity jobs and could potentially be
used by other applications. Because LSF provides the variables expected by both IBM Parallel Environment and LSF MPI, there is some redundancy:
environment variables preﬁxed by RM_ are implemented for compatibility with IBM Parallel Environment, although LSF MPI uses them as well, while
those preﬁxed with LSB_ are only used by LSF MPI. The two types of variable provide similar information, but in different formats.
The following variables are set in the job execution environment:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST
LSB_BIND_MEM_LIST
LSB_BIND_MEM_POLICY
RM_CPUTASKn
RM_MEM_AFFINITY
OMP_NUM_THREADS
Application integration
For single-host applications the application itself does not need to do anything, and only the OMP_NUM_THREADS variable is relevant.
For the ﬁrst execution host of a multi-host parallel application LSF MPI running under LSF will select CPU resources for each task, start up the LSF
MPI agent (mpid) to bind mpid to all allocated CPUs and memory policies. Corresponding environment variables are set including RM_CPUTASKn.
LSF MPI reads RM_CPUTASKn on each host, and does the task-level binding. LSF MPI follows the RM_CPUTASKn setting and binds each task to the
selected CPU list per task. This is the default behavior when LSF MPI runs under LSF.
To support IBM Parallel Operating Environment jobs, LSF starts the PMD program, binds the PMD process to the allocated CPUs and memory nodes
on the host, and sets RM_CPUTASKn, RM_MEM_AFFINITY, and OMP_NUM_THREADS. The IBM Parallel Operating Environment will then do the
binding for individual tasks.
OpenMPI provides a rank ﬁle as the interface for users to deﬁne CPU binding information per task. The rank ﬁle includes MPI rank, host, and CPU
binding allocations per rank. LSF provides a simple script to generate an OpenMPI rank ﬁle based on LSB_AFFINITY_HOSTFILE . The following is an
712    IBM Spectrum LSF

example of an OpenMPI rankﬁle corresponding to the afﬁnity hostﬁle in the description of LSB_AFFINITY_HOSTFILE:
Rank 0=Host1 slot=0,1,2,3 
Rank 1=Host1 slot=4,5,6,7 
Rank 2=Host2 slot=0,1,2,3 
Rank 3=Host2 slot=4,5,6,7 
Rank 4=Host3 slot=0,1,2,3 
Rank 5=Host4 slot=0,1,2,3
The script (openmpi_rankﬁle.sh) is located in $LSF_BINDIR. Use the DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT parameter in an application proﬁle in lsb.applications to
conﬁgure the path to the script.
For distributed applications that use blaunch directly to launch tasks or agent per slot (not per host) by default, LSF binds the task to all allocated
CPUs and memory nodes on the host. That is, the CPU and memory node lists are generated at the host level. Certain distributed application may
need to generate the binding lists on a task-by-task basis. This behaviour is conﬁgurable in either job submission environment or an application
proﬁle as an environment variable named LSB_DJOB_TASK_BIND=Y | N. N is the default. When this environment variable is set, the binding list will
be generated on a task per task basis.
Examples
The following examples assume that the cluster comprises only hosts with the following topology:
Host[64.0G] HostN 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(0 22)                  core0(1 23) 
            core1(2 20)                  core1(3 21) 
            core2(4 18)                  core2(5 19) 
            core3(6 16)                  core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37)
Each host has 64 GB of memory split over two NUMA nodes, each node containing two processor sockets with 6 cores each, and each core having
two threads. Each of the following examples consists of the following:
A bsub command line with an afﬁnity requirement
An allocation for the resulting job displayed as in bjobs
The same allocation displayed as in bhosts
The values of the job environment variables above once the job is dispatched
The examples cover some of the more common examples: serial and parallel jobs with simple CPU and memory requirements, as well as the effect
of the exclusive clause of the afﬁnity resource requirement string.
1. bsub -R "affinity[core(1)]" is a serial job asking for a single core.
The allocation shown in bjobs:
... 
                     CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                     ------------------------             -------------------- 
 HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
 Host1               core   -      -      /0/0/0          -     -    - 
...
In bhosts (assuming no other jobs are on the host):
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(2 20)                  core1(3 21) 
            core2(4 18)                  core2(5 19) 
            core3(6 16)                  core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
IBM Spectrum LSF 713

Contents of afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,22
Job environment variables:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,22
2. bsub -R "affinity[socket(1)]" is a serial job asking for an entire socket.
The allocation shown in bjobs:
... 
                     CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                     ------------------------             -------------------- 
 HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
 Host1               socket -      -      /0/0            -     -    - 
...
In bhosts (assuming no other jobs are on the host):
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(*2 *20)                core1(3 21) 
            core2(*4 *18)                core2(5 19) 
            core3(*6 *16)                core3(7 17) 
            core4(*8 *14)                core4(9 15) 
            core5(*10 *12)               core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
Contents of afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22
Job environment variables:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22
3. bsub -R “affinity[core(4):membind=localonly] rusage[mem=2048]” is a multi-threaded single-task job requiring 4 cores and 2
GB of memory.
The allocation shown in bjobs:
... 
                    CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                    ------------------------             -------------------- 
HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
Host1               core   -      -      /0/0/0          local 0    2.0GB 
                                         /0/0/1        
                                         /0/0/2         
                                         /0/0/3        
...
In bhosts (assuming no other jobs are on the host):
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 2.0G / 32.0G]        NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(*2 *20)                core1(3 21) 
            core2(*4 *18)                core2(5 19) 
            core3(*6 *16)                core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
714    IBM Spectrum LSF

            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
Contents of afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,2,4,6,16,18,20,22 0 1
Job environment variables:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,4,6,16,18,20,22 
LSB_BIND_MEM_LIST=0 
LSB_BIND_MEM_POLICY=localonly 
RM_MEM_AFFINITY=yes 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,4,6,16,18,20,22 
OMP_NUM_THREADS=4
Note: OMP_NUM_THREADS is now present because the only task in the job asked for 4 cores.
4. bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(2)] span[hosts=1]" is a multi-threaded parallel job asking for 2 tasks with 2 cores each running on
the same host.
The allocation shown in bjobs:
... 
                    CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                    ------------------------             -------------------- 
HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
Host1               core   -      -      /0/0/0          -     -    - 
                                         /0/0/1        
Host1               core   -      -      /0/0/2          -     -    - 
                                         /0/0/3        
...
In bhosts (assuming no other jobs are on the host):
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(*2 *20)                core1(3 21) 
            core2(*4 *18)                core2(5 19) 
            core3(*6 *16)                core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
Contents of afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,2,4,6 
Host1 16,18,20,22
Job environment variables set for each of the two tasks:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,4,6,16,18,20,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,4,6 
RM_CPUTASK2=16,18,20,22 
OMP_NUM_THREADS=2
Note: Each task sees RM_CPU_TASK1 and RM_CPU_TASK2 and that LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST is the combined list of all the CPUs allocated to the
job on this host.
If you run the job through the blaunch command and set the LSB_DJOB_TASK_BIND parameter, then everything is the same except that the
job environment variables of the two tasks are different for each task:
Task 1:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,20,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,20,22 
OMP_NUM_THREADS=2
Task 2:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=4,6,16,18 
RM_CPUTASK1=4,6,16,18 
OMP_NUM_THREADS=2
5. bsub -n 2 -R "affinity[core(2)] span[ptile=1]" is a multi-threaded parallel job asking for a 2 tasks with 2 cores each running on a
different host. This is almost identical to the previous example except that the allocation is across two hosts.
IBM Spectrum LSF 715

The allocation shown in bjobs:
... 
                    CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                    ------------------------             -------------------- 
HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
Host1               core   -      -      /0/0/0          -     -    - 
                                         /0/0/1        
Host2               core   -      -      /0/0/0          -     -    - 
                                         /0/0/1        
...
In bhosts (assuming no other jobs are on the host), each of Host1 and Host2 would be allocated as:
... 
Host[64.0G] Host{1,2} 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(*2 *20)                core1(3 21) 
            core2(4 18)                  core2(5 19) 
            core3(6 16)                  core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
Contents of afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,2,20,22 
Host2 0,2,20,22
Job environment variables set for each of the two tasks:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,20,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,20,22 
OMP_NUM_THREADS=2
Note: Each task only sees RM_CPU_TASK1. This is the same as LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST because only one task is running on each host. Setting
DJOB_TASK_BIND=Y would have no effect in this case.
6. bsub -R "affinity[core(1,exclusive=(socket,alljobs))]" is an example of a single threaded serial job asking for a core that it
would like to have exclusive use of a socket across all jobs. Compare this with examples (1) and (2) above of a jobs simply asking for a core or
socket.
The allocation shown in bjobs is the same as the job asking for a core except for the EXCL column:
... 
                     CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                     ------------------------             -------------------- 
 HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
 Host1               core   -      socket /0/0/0          -     -    - 
...
In bhosts, however, the allocation is the same as the job asking for a socket because it needs to reserve it all:
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(*2 *20)                core1(3 21) 
            core2(*4 *18)                core2(5 19) 
            core3(*6 *16)                core3(7 17) 
            core4(*8 *14)                core4(9 15) 
            core5(*10 *12)               core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
The afﬁnity hosts ﬁle, however, shows that the job is only bound to the allocated core when it runs
Host1 0,22
716    IBM Spectrum LSF

This is also reflected in the job environment:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,22
From the point of view of what is available to other jobs (that is, the allocation counted against the host), the job has used an entire socket.
However in all other aspects the job is only binding to a single core.
7. bsub -R "affinity[core(1):cpubind=socket]" asks for a core but asks for the binding to be done at the socket level. Contrast this
with the previous case where the core wanted exclusive use of the socket.
Again, the bjobs allocation is the same as example (1), but this time the LEVEL column is different:
... 
                     CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                     ------------------------             -------------------- 
 HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
 Host1               core   socket -      /0/0/0          -     -    - 
...
In bhosts, the job just takes up a single core, rather than the whole socket like the exclusive job:
... 
Host[64.0G] Host1 
    NUMA[0: 0M / 32.0G]          NUMA[1: 0M / 32.0G] 
        Socket0                      Socket0 
            core0(*0 *22)                core0(1 23) 
            core1(2 20)                  core1(3 21) 
            core2(4 18)                  core2(5 19) 
            core3(6 16)                  core3(7 17) 
            core4(8 14)                  core4(9 15) 
            core5(10 12)                 core5(11 13) 
        Socket1                      Socket1 
            core0(24 46)                 core0(25 47) 
            core1(26 44)                 core1(27 45) 
            core2(28 42)                 core2(29 43) 
            core3(30 40)                 core3(31 41) 
            core4(32 38)                 core4(33 39) 
            core5(34 36)                 core5(35 37) 
...
The view from the execution side though is quite different: from here the list of CPUs that populate the job's binding list on the host is the
entire socket.
Contents of the afﬁnity host ﬁle:
Host1 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22
Job environment:
LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST=0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22 
RM_CPUTASK1=0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,22
Compared to the previous example, from the point of view of what is available to other jobs (that is, the allocation counted against the host),
the job has used a single core. However in terms of the binding list, the job process will be free to use any CPU in the socket while it is running.
Submit jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements on IBM POWER8 systems
Use the esub.p8aff external submission (esub) script to automatically generate the optimal job-level afﬁnity requirements for job submissions on
IBM POWER8 (ppc64le) systems.
To simplify job submission with afﬁnity requirements for IBM POWER8 (ppc64le) systems, LSF includes the esub.p8aff external submission (esub)
script to automatically generate afﬁnity requirements based on the input requirements for the jobs. For the generated afﬁnity requirements, LSF
attempts to reduce the risks of CPU bottlenecks for the CPI allocation in MPI task and OpenMP thread levels.
Requirements
To submit afﬁnity jobs on IBM POWER8 (ppc64le) systems, these hosts must be able to retrieve and change SMT conﬁgurations. Ensure that the
following features are enabled in the LSF cluster:
Conﬁgure the initial SMT mode on all ppc64le execution hosts to the maximum available SMT number.
Install the ppc64_cpu command on all ppc64le execution hosts.
Enable at least one of the Linux cgroup features are enabled in LSF to support customized SMT. That is, ensure that least one of the following
parameters are enabled in the lsf.conf ﬁle:
LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE
IBM Spectrum LSF 717

LSF_LINUX_CGROUP_ACCT
LSF_PROCESS_TRACKING
How to use the esub.p8aff script
Use the bsub -a command to run the esub.p8aff script:
bsub -a "p8aff (num_threads_per_task, SMT, cpus_per_core, distribution_policy)"
num_threads_per_task
The number of OpenMP threads per MPI task.
LSF uses this number to calculate the list of logical CPUs that are bound to each OpenMP thread. LSF sets the OMP_NUM_THREADS
environment variable to this value for SMT jobs.
SMT
Optional. The required per-job SMT mode on the execution hosts.
Use this argument to specify the expected SMT mode that is enabled on the execution hosts. LSF sets the LSB_JOB_SMT_MODE environment
variable to this value for SMT jobs.
LSF automatically adds the exclusive job option (-x) to the job submission to ensure that the execution hosts are not allocated for other jobs.
If you do not specify this argument, SMT mode is not used on the execution hosts.
cpus_per_core
Optional. The number of logical CPUs used per core for each MPI task.
LSF uses this argument to determine how many cores are spanned for each MPI task.
For example, if this argument is speciﬁed as 2 (two logical CPUs per core), LSF allocates the MPI task on three cores if the task requires a total
of six threads.
distribution_policy
Optional. The required task distribution policy for the job.
This argument speciﬁes the expected task distribution policy of the MPI tasks. Valid values are balance, pack, and any, which are the same
as the corresponding values for the distribute keyword in the LSF afﬁnity[] resource requirement string.
If you are not specifying the optional arguments, leave those arguments blank:
Use "-a p8aff(10,8,,pack)" if the cpus_per_core argument is not speciﬁed.
Use "-a p8aff(10,,,pack)" if the SMT and cpus_per_core arguments are not speciﬁed.
Use "-a p8aff(10,8,2)" or "-a p8aff(10,8,2,)" if the distribution_policy argument is not speciﬁed.
Use "-a p8aff(10,8)" or "-a p8aff(10,8,,)" if the cpus_per_core and distribution_policy arguments are not speciﬁed.
Submitting jobs without job-level afﬁnity requirements
If the user speciﬁes at least the ﬁrst argument (num_threads_per_task) when submitting jobs without job-level afﬁnity requirements (that is, without
specifying -R "affinity[]"), the esub.p8aff script automatically generates the job-level afﬁnity requirements for the job.
For example, if you specify the following arguments, the esub.p8aff script informs LSF that each MPI task in the job that uses 10 OpenMP threads
and the execution hosts must be conﬁgured with 4 SMTs:
bsub -n 2 -a "p8aff(10,4,1,balance)" myjob
The esub.p8aff script generates the following job-level afﬁnity requirement based on these arguments:
-R "affinity[thread(1, exclusive=(core,intask))*10:cpubind=thread:distribute=balance]"
LSF generates the afﬁnity requirements to ensure that it allocates one logical CPU on each physical core for each MPI task. LSF attempts to distribute
the job tasks equally across all processor units on the allocated hosts.
Submitting jobs with job-level afﬁnity requirements
If you specify the num_threads_per_task or SMT arguments when submitting jobs with job-level afﬁnity requirements (that is, by specifying -R
"affinity[]"), esub.p8aff sets the OMP_NUM_THREADS or LSB_JOB_SMT_MODE environment variables for the job. LSF conﬁgures OpenMP
thread afﬁnity and the requested SMT mode on the execution hosts according to these environment variables.
Note: If you specify the num_threads_per_task, SMT, or both arguments while using job-level afﬁnity requirements, esub.p8aff ignores the
cpus_per_core and distribution_policy arguments.
For example, if you specify the following arguments while using the job-level afﬁnity requirements, the esub.p8aff script informs LSF that each MPI
task in the job that uses 10 OpenMP threads and the execution hosts must be conﬁgured with 4 SMTs:
bsub -n 2 -a "p8aff(10,4)" -R "affinity[thread(1, exclusive=(core,intask))*10:cpubind:distribute=balance]" myjob
718    IBM Spectrum LSF

This particular example shows t*+hat you speciﬁed your own afﬁnity requirements without relying on esub.p8aff to automatically generate one for
you.
Per-job SMT mode conﬁgurations
The LSF administrator must set the initial SMT mode to the maximum available SMT number on all execution hosts before LSF schedules jobs. LSF
uses this number as the default SMT mode if there are no jobs running on the hosts. If the initial SMT mode is not the maximum allowed SMT
number, LSF uses this mode as the default SMT mode on the hosts, which means that LSF assumes that this smaller value is the maximum number
of SMT resources available for job scheduling.
LSF uses the ppc64_cpu command before starting tasks on each host to conﬁgure the SMT mode according to the LSB_JOB_SMT_MODE
environment variable. After the job ﬁnishes, LSF sets the SMT mode on each host back to the default SMT number for that host.
Integration with OpenMP thread afﬁnity
LSF supports OpenMP thread afﬁnity in the blaunch distributed application framework. LSF MPI distributions must integrate with LSF to enable the
OpenMP thread afﬁnity.
When the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable is set for the job, LSF automatically sets the following environment variables that are related to
the OpenMP thread afﬁnity that is based on the allocated logical CPUs for the task:
OMP_PROC_BIND: LSF sets this environment variable to "TRUE" if the OMP_NUM_THREAD environment variable is available.
OMP_PLACES: LSF calculates the list of logical CPUs to bind each OpenMP thread to a logical CPU.
Each OpenMP thread is bound to an individual logical CPU to avoid the thread from switching overheads. LSF evenly binds each OpenMP thread to
one logical CPU from the list of allocated logical CPUs for the current MPI task.
LSF applies the OpenMP thread afﬁnity in the following manner:
If the number of allocated logical CPUs is equal to the number of OpenMP threads per task (that is, the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment
variable value), each OpenMP thread is bound to a separate logical CPU.
For example, if the logical CPUs that are allocated to an MPI task with two OpenMP threads are logical CPUs 0 and 8, the OMP_PLACES
environment variable is set to "{0},{8}".
If the number of allocated logical CPUs is larger than the value of the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable, the list of logical CPUs is
placed into multiple groups based on the number speciﬁed by the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable. The ﬁrst logical CPU in each
group is bound to each OpenMP thread. All remaining CPUs that do not divide evenly into the number of OpenMP threads are added to the last
group.
For example, if the logical CPUs that are allocated to an MPI task are 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4, and there are two OpenMP threads that are started by
this task, there would be two CPU groups: {0,1} and {2,3,4}. Then, OMP_PLACES environment variable is set to "{0},{2}".
If the number of allocated logical CPUs is smaller than the value of the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable, all the threads are bound
to all the logical CPUs.
For example, if a job's OpenMP thread number is 5 and the afﬁnity requirement is "thread(2)", LSF evenly binds the allocated CPUs to each
OpenMP thread by using the round-robin manner. The OMP_PLACES environment variable is set to "{0},{1},{0},{1},{0}" if LSF allocates
logical CPUs 0 and 1 to the task.
Managing jobs with afﬁnity resource requirements
You can view resources allocated for jobs and tasks with CPU and memory afﬁnity resource requirements with the -l -aff option of bjobs, bhist, and
bacct. Use bhosts -aff to view host resources allocated for afﬁnity jobs.
Viewing job resources for afﬁnity jobs (-aff)
The -aff option displays information about jobs with CPU and memory afﬁnity resource requirement for each task in the job. A table headed
AFFINITY shows detailed memory and CPU binding information for each task in the job, one line for each allocated processor unit.
Use only with the -l option of bjobs, bhist, and bacct.
Use bjobs -l -aff to display information about CPU and memory afﬁnity resource requirements for job tasks. A table with the heading AFFINITY is
displayed containing the detailed afﬁnity information for each task, one line for each allocated processor unit. CPU binding and memory binding
information are shown in separate columns in the display.
For example the following job starts 6 tasks with the following afﬁnity resource requirements:
bsub -n 6 -R"span[hosts=1] rusage[mem=100]affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob)) 
:cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack]" myjob 
Job <6> is submitted to default queue <normal>.
IBM Spectrum LSF 719

bjobs -l -aff 61 
Job <61>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Status <RUN>, Queue <normal>, Comman 
                     d <myjob1> 
Thu Feb 14 14:13:46: Submitted from host <hostA>, CWD <$HOME>, 6 Processors R 
                     equested, Requested Resources <span[hosts=1] rusage[mem=10 
                     0]affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob)):cp 
                     ubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack]>; 
Thu Feb 14 14:15:07: Started on 6 Hosts/Processors <hostA> <hostA> <hostA 
                     > <hostA> <hostA> <hostA>, Execution Home </home/user1 
                     >, Execution CWD </home/user1>; 
 SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem 
 loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS: 
 Combined: select[type == local] order[r15s:pg] rusage[mem=100.00] span[hosts=1 
                     ] affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob))*1: 
                     cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack] 
 Effective: select[type == local] order[r15s:pg] rusage[mem=100.00] span[hosts= 
                     1] affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,injob))*1 
                     :cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack] 
 AFFINITY: 
                     CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                     ------------------------             -------------------- 
 HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/0/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/1/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/2/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/3/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/4/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 hostA               core   socket socket /0/5/0          local 0    16.7MB 
 ...
Use bhist -l -aff to display historical job information about CPU and memory afﬁnity resource requirements for job tasks.
If the job is pending, the requested afﬁnity resources are displayed. For running jobs, the effective and combined afﬁnity resource allocation decision
made by LSF is also displayed, along with a table headed AFFINITY that shows detailed memory and CPU binding information for each task, one line
for each allocated processor unit. For ﬁnished jobs (EXIT or DONE state), the afﬁnity requirements for the job, and the effective and combined afﬁnity
resource requirement details are displayed.
The following example shows bhist output for job 61.
bhist -l -aff 61 
Job <61>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <myjob> 
Thu Feb 14 14:13:46: Submitted from host <hostA>, to Queue <normal>, CWD <$HO 
                     ME>, 6 Processors Requested, Requested Resources <span[hos 
                     ts=1] rusage[mem=100]affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive 
                     =(socket,injob)):cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribu 
                     te=pack]>; 
Thu Feb 14 14:15:07: Dispatched to 6 Hosts/Processors <hostA> <hostA> <hostA> 
                     <hostA> <hostA> <hostA>, Effective RES_REQ <sel 
                     ect[type == local] order[r15s:pg] rusage[mem=100.00] span[ 
                     hosts=1] affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,inj 
                     ob))*1:cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack] > 
                     ; 
AFFINITY: 
                    CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                    ------------------------             -------------------- 
HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/0/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/1/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/2/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/3/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/4/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/5/0          local 0    16.7MB 
Thu Feb 14 14:15:07: Starting (Pid 3630709); 
Thu Feb 14 14:15:07: Running with execution home </home/jsmith>, Execution CWD 
                     </home/jsmith>, Execution Pid <3630709>; 
Thu Feb 14 14:16:47: Done successfully. The CPU time used is 0.0 seconds; 
Thu Feb 14 14:16:47: Post job process done successfully; 
MEMORY USAGE: 
MAX MEM: 2 Mbytes;  AVG MEM: 2 Mbytes 
Summary of time in seconds spent in various states by  Thu Feb 14 14:16:47 
720    IBM Spectrum LSF

  PEND     PSUSP    RUN      USUSP    SSUSP    UNKWN    TOTAL 
  81       0        100      0        0        0        181
Use bacct -l -aff to display accounting job information about CPU and memory afﬁnity resource allocations for job tasks. A table with the heading
AFFINITY is displayed containing the detailed afﬁnity information for each task, one line for each allocated processor unit. CPU binding and memory
binding information are shown in separate columns in the display. The following example shows bhist output for job 61.
bacct -l -aff 61 
Accounting information about jobs that are: 
  - submitted by all users. 
  - accounted on all projects. 
  - completed normally or exited 
  - executed on all hosts. 
  - submitted to all queues. 
  - accounted on all service classes. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Job <61>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Status <DONE>, Queue <normal>, Comma 
                     nd <myjob> 
Thu Feb 14 14:13:46: Submitted from host <hostA>, CWD <$HOME>; 
Thu Feb 14 14:15:07: Dispatched to 6 Hosts/Processors <hostA> <hostA> <hostA> 
                     <hostA> <hostA> <hostA>, Effective RES_REQ <sel 
                     ect[type == local] order[r15s:pg] rusage[mem=100.00] span[ 
                     hosts=1] affinity[core(1,same=socket,exclusive=(socket,inj 
                     ob))*1:cpubind=socket:membind=localonly:distribute=pack] > 
                     ; 
Thu Feb 14 14:16:47: Completed <done>. 
AFFINITY: 
                    CPU BINDING                          MEMORY BINDING 
                    ------------------------             -------------------- 
HOST                TYPE   LEVEL  EXCL   IDS             POL   NUMA SIZE 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/0/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/1/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/2/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/3/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/4/0          local 0    16.7MB 
hostA               core   socket socket /0/5/0          local 0    16.7MB 
Accounting information about this job: 
     CPU_T     WAIT     TURNAROUND   STATUS     HOG_FACTOR    MEM    SWAP 
      0.01       81            181     done         0.0001     2M    137M 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
SUMMARY:      ( time unit: second ) 
 Total number of done jobs:       1      Total number of exited jobs:     0 
 Total CPU time consumed:       0.0      Average CPU time consumed:     0.0 
 Maximum CPU time of a job:     0.0      Minimum CPU time of a job:     0.0 
 Total wait time in queues:    81.0 
 Average wait time in queue:   81.0 
 Maximum wait time in queue:   81.0      Minimum wait time in queue:   81.0 
 Average turnaround time:       181 (seconds/job) 
 Maximum turnaround time:       181      Minimum turnaround time:       181 
 Average hog factor of a job:  0.00 ( cpu time / turnaround time ) 
 Maximum hog factor of a job:  0.00      Minimum hog factor of a job:  0.00
Viewing host resources for afﬁnity jobs (-aff)
Use bhosts -aff or bhosts -l -aff to display host topology information for CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling.
The following ﬁelds are displayed:
Host[memory] host_name
Available memory on the host. If memory availability cannot be determined, a dash (-) is displayed for the host. If the -l option is speciﬁed
with the -aff option, the host name is not displayed.
For hosts that do not support afﬁnity scheduling, a dash (-) is displayed for host memory and no host topology is displayed.
NUMA[numa_node: requested_mem / max_mem]
Requested and available NUMA node memory. It is possible for requested memory for the NUMA node to be greater than the maximum
available memory displayed.
Socket, core, and thread IDs are displayed for each NUMA node.
A socket is a collection of cores with a direct pipe to memory. Each socket contains 1 or more cores. This does not necessarily refer to a
physical socket, but rather to the memory architecture of the machine.
A core is a single entity capable of performing computations. On hosts with hyper-threading enabled, a core can contain one or more threads.
IBM Spectrum LSF 721

For example:
bhosts -l -aff hostA 
HOST  hostA 
STATUS           CPUF  JL/U    MAX  NJOBS    RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV DISPATCH_WINDOW 
ok              60.00     -      8      0      0      0      0      0      - 
 CURRENT LOAD USED FOR SCHEDULING: 
                r15s   r1m  r15m    ut    pg    io   ls    it   tmp   swp   mem  slots 
 Total           0.0   0.0   0.0   30%   0.0   193   25     0 8605M  5.8G 13.2G      8 
 Reserved        0.0   0.0   0.0    0%   0.0     0    0     0    0M    0M    0M      - 
 LOAD THRESHOLD USED FOR SCHEDULING: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem 
 loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
 CONFIGURED AFFINITY CPU LIST: all 
 AFFINITY: Enabled 
 Host[15.7G] 
     NUMA[0: 0M / 15.7G] 
         Socket0 
             core0(0) 
         Socket1 
             core0(1) 
         Socket2 
             core0(2) 
         Socket3 
             core0(3) 
         Socket4 
             core0(4) 
         Socket5 
             core0(5) 
         Socket6 
             core0(6) 
         Socket7 
             core0(7)
When LSF detects missing elements in the topology, it attempts to correct the problem by adding the missing levels into the topology. For example,
sockets and cores are missing on hostB below:
... 
Host[1.4G] hostB 
    NUMA[0: 1.4G / 1.4G] (*0 *1) 
...
A job requesting 2 cores, or 2 sockets, or 2 CPUs will run. Requesting 2 cores from the same NUMA node will also run. However, a job requesting 2
cores from the same socket will remain pending.
Use lshosts -T to display host topology information for each host.
Displays host topology information for each host or cluster:
The following ﬁelds are displayed:
Host[memory] host_name
Maximum memory available on the host followed by the host name. If memory availability cannot be determined, a dash (-) is displayed for
the host.
For hosts that do not support afﬁnity scheduling, a dash (-) is displayed for host memory and no host topology is displayed.
NUMA[numa_node: max_mem]
Maximum NUMA node memory. It is possible for requested memory for the NUMA node to be greater than the maximum available memory
displayed.
If no NUMA nodes are present, then the NUMA layer in the output is not shown. Other relevant items such as host, socket, core and thread are
still shown.
If the host is not available, only the host name is displayed. A dash (-) is shown where available host memory would normally be displayed.
A socket is a collection of cores with a direct pipe to memory. Each socket contains 1 or more cores. This does not necessarily refer to a
physical socket, but rather to the memory architecture of the machine.
A core is a single entity capable of performing computations. On hosts with hyper-threading enabled, a core can contain one or more threads.
lshosts -T differs from the bhosts -aff output:
Socket and core IDs are not displayed for each NUMA node.
722    IBM Spectrum LSF

The requested memory of a NUMA node is not displayed
lshosts -T displays all enabled CPUs on a host, not just those deﬁned in the CPU list in lsb.hosts
A node contains sockets, a socket contains cores, and a core can contain threads if the core is enabled for multithreading.
In the following example, full topology (NUMA, socket, and core) information is shown for hostA. Hosts hostB and hostC are either not NUMA hosts
or they are not available:
lshosts -T 
Host[15.7G] hostA 
    NUMA[0: 15.7G] 
        Socket 
            core(0) 
        Socket 
            core(1) 
        Socket 
            core(2) 
        Socket 
            core(3) 
        Socket 
            core(4) 
        Socket 
            core(5) 
        Socket 
            core(6) 
        Socket 
            core(7) 
Host[-] hostB 
Host[-] hostC
When LSF cannot detect processor unit topology, lshosts -T displays processor units to the closest level. For example:
lshosts -T 
     Host[1009M] hostA  
            Socket (0 1)
On hostA there are two processor units: 0 and 1. LSF cannot detect core information, so the processor unit is attached to the socket level.
Hardware topology information is not shown for client hosts and hosts in a mixed cluster or multicluster environment running a version of LSF that is
older than 10.1.0.
Afﬁnity preemption
To enable afﬁnity preemption, set the PREEMPT_JOBTYPE = AFFINITY parameter in the Parameters section of the lsb.params ﬁle. By default, afﬁnity
resources are not preemptable.
Afﬁnity preemption supports the following:
Preemption of afﬁnity resources (cores, threads, sockets, NUMA nodes, and NUMA memory)
Backﬁll of reserved afﬁnity resources
Pending License Scheduler jobs can use the afﬁnity resources of a suspended License Scheduler job, as long as both jobs request at least one
license in common
Afﬁnity preemption interacts with the following LSF features:
Queue-based afﬁnity resource preemption
A running job with afﬁnity requirements may occupy cores in a low priority queue. When afﬁnity preemption is enabled, a pending job in a high
priority queue that also has an afﬁnity requirement is potentially able to preempt the running job in the low priority queue to get its afﬁnity
resources (threads, cores, sockets, NUMA nodes). When PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES = mem is enabled in lsb.params a higher priority afﬁnity
job can preempt a running low priority job for host memory, NUMA memory as well as slots.
Afﬁnity resources are treated similar to slots and memory: when a job is suspended, the job continues to occupy its slots and its afﬁnity
resources, preventing another job from using these resources, unless that other job is in a queue that has a preemption relationship with the
suspended job.
Afﬁnity resource backﬁll
A job in a reservation queue may reserve slots, memory and afﬁnity resources (and potentially other reservable resources). If the reserving job
has an afﬁnity requirement, LSF can reserve afﬁnity resources for the job. A job in a backﬁll queue that has an afﬁnity requirement can use the
reserved afﬁnity resources of a pending job if the backﬁll job is expected to ﬁnish before the earliest expected start time of the reserving job.
The rule of thumb is that if a job in a backﬁll queue is able to use the slots reserved by another job during backﬁll scheduling, then it should be
also able to use the reserved afﬁnity resources. Afﬁnity backﬁll is enabled by default, and cannot be disabled.
License Scheduler afﬁnity resource preemption
Slots, and optionally, memory are released by a suspended License Scheduler job only to other License Scheduler jobs that request at least
one license in common with the suspended job.
IBM Spectrum LSF 723

This feature also applies to afﬁnity resources. Once a License Scheduler job is suspended, the afﬁnity resources occupied by the job are
available to other License Scheduler jobs that request at least one license in common with the suspended job, in its rusage. When
LSF_LIC_SCHED_PREEMPT_SLOT_RELEASE=N in lsf.conf, afﬁnity resources along with slots and memory are not released to pending License
Scheduler jobs. LSF_LIC_SCHED_PREEMPT_SLOT_RELEASE is enabled by default.
Preemption queue preference
You can conﬁgure which queues should have preference to preempt from. Preemption queue preference is enabled by USE_SUSP_SLOTS=Y in
lsb.params. USE_SUSP_SLOTS=Y supports afﬁnity preemption. With this parameter enabled, pending jobs in preemptable queues are allowed
to use the slots of suspended jobs in higher priority preemptive queues. The queues must have a preemption releationship with each other.
When USE_SUSP_SLOTS=N, pending jobs in a low priority preemptable queue cannot use the slots of a suspended job in a high priority
preemptive queue.
When USE_SUSP_SLOTS=Y, then pending jobs in preemptable queues are allowed to use the afﬁnity resources occupied by suspended jobs in
higher priority preemptive queues, if the queues have a preemption relationship. Note that SSUSP jobs on a host are always allowed to try to
resume and use the non-releasable resources, including slots, memory, and afﬁnity resources, occupied by other suspended jobs on the same
host.
Memory preemption
By default, LSF considers memory to be a non-releasable resource. When a running job is suspended, LSF continues to reserve memory for
the suspended job. When memory preemption is enabled by setting PREEMPTABLE_RESOURCES = mem in lsb.params, jobs with memory
requirements submitted to high priority preemptive queues can preempt jobs in low priority queues for memory. When LSF allows jobs in
preemptive queues to use memory reserved for suspended jobs, LSF essentially allows host memory to be overcommitted. Host-based
memory is a separate resource from the memory reservations made on the NUMA nodes. However, preemption can be triggered for NUMA-
level memory as well when memory is conﬁgured as a preemptable resource.
Afﬁnity binding based on Linux cgroup cpuset subsystem
LSF can enforce CPU binding on systems that support the Linux cgroup cpuset subsystem. When CPU afﬁnity binding through Linux cgroups is
enabled, LSF will create a cpuset to contain job processes if the job has afﬁnity resource requirements, so that the job processes cannot escape from
the allocated CPUs. Each afﬁnity job cpuset includes only the CPU and memory nodes that LSF distributes. Linux cgroup cpusets are only created for
afﬁnity jobs.
With this feature, LSF collects processor topology from hosts, including NUMA nodes, sockets, cores, and hyperthreads. Users can submit jobs
specifying how processes of a job should be bound to these computing elements. LSF uses the system call sched_setafﬁnity() to bind CPUs. It is
possible for user applications to escape from the bound CPUs by calling sched_setafﬁnity() directly to bind to other CPUs.
For example, submit a job with core afﬁnity requirement and localprefer memory binding:
bsub -R "affinity[core:membind=localprefer]"./myapp
LSF will create a cpuset which contains one core and attach the process ID of the application ./myapp to this cpuset. The cpuset serves as a strict
container for job processes, so that the application ./myapp cannot bind to other CPUs.
In this example, the memory binding policy is localprefer. When membind=localprefer, or it is not speciﬁed, LSF adds all memory nodes to the
cpuset to make sure the job can access all memory nodes on the host, and will make sure job processes will access preferred memory nodes ﬁrst. If
the memory binding policy is localonly, LSF only adds the memory nodes that the LSF scheduler distributes to the cpuset, and myapp only uses those
memory nodes, not all memory nodes.
To enable the cpuset enforcement feature, conﬁgure LSB_RESOURCE_ENFORCE="cpu" in lsf.conf.
Portable hardware locality
Portable Hardware Locality (hwloc) is an open source software package that is distributed under BSD license. It provides a portable abstraction
(across OS, versions, architectures, and so on) of the hierarchical topology of modern architectures, including NUMA memory nodes, socket, shared
caches, cores, and simultaneous multithreading (SMT). hwloc is integrated into LSF to detect hardware information, and can support most of the
platforms that LSF supports.
Functionality
The hwloc package gathers various system attributes such as cache and memory information as well as the locality of I/O device such as network
interfaces. It primarily aims at helping applications with gathering information about computing hardware.
It also detects each host hardware topology when the LIM starts and the host topology information is changed. The management host LIM detects
the topology of the management host. The server host LIM detects the topology of the local host. It updates the topology information to the
management host when it joins the cluster or sends topology information to the management host LIM for host conﬁguration. Host topology
information is updated once the hardware topology changes. Hardware topology changes if any NUMA memory node, caches, socket, core, PU and so
on, changes. Sometimes topology information changes even though the core number did not change.
724    IBM Spectrum LSF

Use the lim -T and lshosts -T commands to display host topology information. The lim -t command displays the total number of NUMA nodes, total
number of processors, total number of cores, and total number of threads.
Structure of topology
A NUMA node contains sockets. Each socket contains cores (processes) which contain threads. If there is no hwloc library, LSF uses the PCT logic.
Some AMD CPUs have the opposite structure where socket nodes contain NUMA nodes. The hierarchies of the topology is similar to a tree.
Therefore, the host topology information (NUMA memory nodes, caches, sockets, cores, PUs, and so on) from hwloc is organized as a tree. Each tree
node has its type. The type includes host, NUMA, socket, cache, core, and pu. Each tree node also includes its attributes.
In the following example, hostA has 64 GB of memory and two NUMA nodes. Each socket node has one NUMA, eight cores, 16 PUs (two PUs per
core), and 32 GB of memory. Both the NUMA nodes and the PUs are numbered in series that is provided by the system. LSF displays NUMA
information based on the level it detects from the system. The output format displays as a tree, and the NUMA information displays as NUMA[ID:
memory]. The PU displays as parent_node(ID ID ...), where parent_node may be host, NUMA, socket, or core.
In the following example, NUMA[0: 32G] means that the NUMA ID is 0 and has 32 GB of memory. core0(0 16) means that there are two PUs
under the parent core node, and the ID of the two PUs are 0 and 16.
Host[64G] hostA  
Socket0 
  NUMA[0: 32G] 
   core0(0 16) 
   core1(1 17) 
   core2(2 18) 
   core3(3 19) 
   core4(4 20) 
   core5(5 21) 
   core6(6 22) 
   core7(7 23) 
Socket1 
 NUMA[1: 32G] 
   core8(8 24) 
   core9(9 25) 
   core10(10 26) 
   core11(11 27) 
   core12(12 28) 
   core13(13 29) 
   core14(14 30) 
   core15(15 31)
Some CPUs, especially old ones, may have incomplete hardware topology in terms of missing information for NUMA, socket, or core. Therefore, their
topology is incomplete.
For example,
hostB (with one Intel Pentium 4 CPU) has 2G of memory, one socket, one core, and two PUs per core. Information on hostB is displayed as
follows:
Host[2G] hostB  
Socket 
      core(0 1)
hostC (with one Intel Itanium CPU) has 4 GB of memory, and two PUs. Information on hostC is displayed as follows:
Host[4G] (0 1) hostC
Some platforms or operating system versions will only report a subset of topology information.
For example, hostD has the same CPU as hostB, but hostD is running RedHat Linux 4, which does not supply core information. Therefore,
information on hostD is displayed as follows:
Host[1009M] hostD 
Socket (0 1)
Dynamically load the hwloc library
You can conﬁgure LSF to dynamically load the hwloc library from the system library paths to detect newer hardware. This allows you to use the latest
supported version of the hwloc (2.11.1) and LSF integration at any time if there are no compatibility issues between this version of the hwloc library
and header ﬁle for hwloc. If LSF fails to load the library, LSF defaults to using the hwloc functions in the static library.
Enable the dynamic loading of the hwloc library by enabling the LSF_HWLOC_DYNAMIC parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Processor binding for LSF job processes
IBM Spectrum LSF 725

Processor binding for LSF job processes takes advantage of the power of multiple processors and multiple cores to provide hard processor binding
functionality for sequential LSF jobs and parallel jobs that run on a single host.
Rapid progress of modern processor manufacture technologies has enabled the low-cost deployment of LSF on hosts with multicore and multithread
processors. The default soft afﬁnity policy enforced by the operating system scheduler may not give optimal job performance. For example, the
operating system scheduler may place all job processes on the same processor or core leading to poor performance. Frequently switching processes
as the operating system schedules and reschedules work between cores can cause cache invalidations and cache miss rates to grow large.
Restriction: Processor binding is supported on hosts running Linux with kernel version 2.6 or higher.
For multi-host parallel jobs, LSF sets two environment variables (LSB_BIND_JOB and LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST) but does not attempt to bind the job to
any host.
When processor binding for LSF job processes is enabled on supported hosts, job processes of an LSF job are bound to a processor according to the
binding policy of the host. When an LSF job is completed (exited or done successfully) or suspended, the corresponding processes are unbound from
the processor.
When a suspended LSF job is resumed, the corresponding processes are bound again to a processor. The process is not guaranteed to be bound to
the same processor it was bound to before the job was suspended.
The processor binding affects the whole job process group. All job processes forked from the root job process (the job RES) are bound to the same
processor.
Processor binding for LSF job processes does not bind daemon processes.
If processor binding is enabled, but the execution hosts do not support processor afﬁnity, the conﬁguration has no effect on the running processes.
Processor binding has no effect on a single-processor host.
Processor, core, and thread-based CPU binding
By default, the number of CPUs on a host represents the number of cores a machine has. For LSF hosts with multiple cores, threads, and processors,
ncpus can be deﬁned by the cluster administrator to consider one of the following:
Processors
Processors and cores
Processors, cores, and threads
Globally, this deﬁnition is controlled by the parameter EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf or ego.conf. The default behavior for ncpus is to consider the
number of cores (EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=cores).
Note: When PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y in lsb.params, the resource requirement string keyword ncpus refers to the number of slots instead of
the number of CPUs, however lshosts output will continue to show ncpus as deﬁned by EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS in lsf.conf.
Binding job processes randomly to multiple processors, cores, or threads, may affect job performance. Processor binding conﬁgured with
LSF_BIND_JOB in lsf.conf or BIND_JOB in lsb.applications, detects the EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS policy to bind the job processes by processor, core, or
thread (PCT).
For example, if the PCT policy for the host is set to processor (EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=procs) and the binding option is set to BALANCE, the ﬁrst job
process is bound to the ﬁrst physical processor, the second job process is bound to the second physical processor and so on.
If the PCT policy for the host is set to core level (EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=cores) and the binding option is set to BALANCE, the ﬁrst job process is
bound to the ﬁrst core on the ﬁrst physical processor, the second job process is bound to the ﬁrst core on the second physical processor, the third job
process is bound to the second core on the ﬁrst physical processor, and so on.
If the PCT policy for the host is set to thread level (EGO_DEFINE_NCPUS=threads) and the binding option is set to BALANCE, the ﬁrst job process is
bound to the ﬁrst thread on the ﬁrst physical processor, the second job process is bound to the ﬁrst thread on the second physical processor, the
third job process is bound to the second thread on the ﬁrst physical processor, and so on.
Note: BIND_JOB and LSF_BIND_JOB are deprecated in LSF Standard Edition and LSF Advanced Edition. You should enable LSF CPU and memory
afﬁnity scheduling in with the AFFINITY parameter in lsb.hosts. If both BIND_JOB and afﬁnity scheduling are enabled, afﬁnity scheduling takes
effect, and BIND_JOB is disabled. If both LSF_BIND_JOB and afﬁnity scheduling are enabled, afﬁnity scheduling takes effect, and LSF_BIND_JOB is
disabled. BIND_JOB and LSF_BIND_JOB are the only afﬁnity options available in LSF Express Edition.
BIND_JOB=BALANCE
The BIND_JOB=BALANCE option instructs LSF to bind the job that is based on the load of the available processors/cores/threads. For each slot:
If the PCT level is set to processor, the lowest loaded physical processor runs the job.
If the PCT level is set to core, the lowest loaded core on the lowest loaded processor runs the job.
If the PCT level is set to thread, the lowest loaded thread on the lowest loaded core on the lowest loaded processor runs the job.
If there is a single 2 processor quad core host and you submit a parallel job with –n 2 –R”span[hosts=1]” when the PCT level is core, the job is
bound to the ﬁrst core on the ﬁrst processor and the ﬁrst core on the second processor:
726    IBM Spectrum LSF

After submitting another three jobs with -n 2 -R"span[hosts=1]":
If PARALLEL_SCHED_BY_SLOT=Y is set in lsb.params, the job speciﬁes a maximum and minimum number of job slots instead of processors. If the
MXJ value is set to 16 for this host (there are 16 job slots on this host), LSF can dispatch more jobs to this host. Another job submitted to this host is
bound to the ﬁrst core on the ﬁrst processor and the ﬁrst core on the second processor:
BIND_JOB=PACK
The BIND_JOB=PACK option instructs LSF to try to pack all the processes onto a single processor. If this cannot be done, LSF tries to use as few
processors as possible. Email is sent to you after job dispatch and when job ﬁnishes. If no processors/cores/threads are free (when the PCT level is
processor/core/thread level), LSF tries to use the BALANCE policy for the new job.
LSF depends on the order of processor IDs to pack jobs to a single processor.
If PCT level is processor, there is no difference between BALANCE and PACK.
This option binds jobs to a single processor where it makes sense, but does not oversubscribe the processors/cores/threads. The other processors
are used when they are needed. For instance, when the PCT level is core level, if we have a single four processor quad core host and we had bound 4
sequential jobs onto the ﬁrst processor, the 5th-8th sequential job is bound to the second processor.
If you submit three single-host parallel jobs with -n 2 -R"span[hosts=1]" when the PCT level is core level, the ﬁrst job is bound to the ﬁrst and
seconds cores of the ﬁrst processor, the second job is bound to the third and fourth cores of the ﬁrst processor. Binding the third job to the ﬁrst
processor oversubscribes the cores in the ﬁrst processor, so the third job is bound to the ﬁrst and second cores of the second processor:
After JOB1 and JOB2 ﬁnished, if you submit one single-host parallel jobs with -n 2 -R"span[hosts=1], the job is bound to the third and fourth
cores of the second processor:
IBM Spectrum LSF 727

BIND_JOB=ANY
BIND_JOB=ANY binds the job to the ﬁrst N available processors/cores/threads with no regard for locality. If the PCT level is core, LSF binds the ﬁrst
N available cores regardless of whether they are on the same processor or not. LSF arranges the order based on APIC ID.
If PCT level is processor (default value after installation), there is no difference between ANY and BALANCE.
For example, with a single 2-processor quad core host and the following table is the relationship of APIC ID and logic processor/core id:
APC ID Processor ID Core ID
0 0 0
1 0 1
2 0 2
3 0 3
4 1 0
5 1 1
6 1 2
7 1 3
If the PCT level is core level and you submit two jobs to this host with -n 3 -R "span[hosts=1]", then the ﬁrst job is bound to the ﬁrst, second,
and third core of the ﬁrst physical processor, the second job is bound to the fourth core of the ﬁrst physical processor and the ﬁrst, second core in the
second physical processor.
BIND_JOB=USER
The BIND_JOB=USER parameter binds the job to the value of $LSB_USER_BIND_JOB as speciﬁed in the user submission environment. This allows
the Administrator to delegate binding decisions to the actual user. This value must be one of Y, N, NONE, BALANCE, PACK, or ANY. Any other value is
treated as ANY.
BIND_JOB=USER_CPU_LIST
The BIND_JOB=USER_CPU_LIST parameter binds the job to the explicit logic CPUs speciﬁed in environment variable $LSB_USER_BIND_CPU_LIST.
LSF does not check that the value is valid for the execution host(s). It is the user's responsibility to correctly specify the CPU list for the hosts they
select.
The correct format of $LSB_USER_BIND_CPU_LIST is a list which may contain multiple items, separated by comma, and ranges. For example,
0,5,7,9-11.
If the value's format is not correct or there is no such environment variable, jobs are not bound to any processor.
If the format is correct and it cannot be mapped to any logic CPU, the binding fails. But if it can be mapped to some CPUs, the job is bound to the
mapped CPUs. For example, with a two-processor quad core host and the logic CPU ID is 0-7:
1. If user1 speciﬁes 9,10 into $LSB_USER_BIND_CPU_LIST, his job is not bound to any CPUs.
2. If user2 speciﬁes 1,2,9 into $LSB_USER_BIND_CPU_LIST, his job is bound to CPU 1 and 2.
If the value's format is not correct or it does not apply for the execution host, the related information is added to the email sent to users after job
dispatch and job ﬁnish.
If user speciﬁes a minimum and a maximum number of processors for a single-host parallel job, LSF may allocate processors between these two
numbers for the job. In this case, LSF binds the job according to the CPU list speciﬁed by the user.
BIND_JOB=NONE
The BIND_JOB=NONE parameter is functionally equivalent to the the former BIND_JOB=N parameter where the processor binding is disabled.
728    IBM Spectrum LSF

Feature interactions
Existing CPU afﬁnity featuresProcessor binding of LSF job processes will not take effect on a management host with the following parameters
conﬁgured.
MBD_QUERY_CPUS
LSF_DAEMONS_CPUS
EGO_DAEMONS_CPUS
Job requeue, rerun, and migration
When a job is requeued, rerun or migrated, a new job process is created. If processor binding is enabled when the job runs, the job processes
will be bound to a processor.
bctrld restart sbd
bctrld restart sbd restarts a new sbatchd. If a job process has already been bound to a processor, after sbatchd is restarted, processor
binding for the job processes are restored.
badmin reconﬁg
If the BIND_JOB parameter is modiﬁed in an application proﬁle, badmin reconﬁg only affects pending jobs. The change does not affect
running jobs.
LSF multicluster capability job forwarding model
In the LSF multicluster capability environment, the behavior is similar to the current application proﬁle behavior. If the application proﬁle
name speciﬁed in the submission cluster is not deﬁned in the execution cluster, the job is rejected. If the execution cluster has the same
application proﬁle name, but does not enable processor binding, the job processes are not bound at the execution cluster.
Enabling processor binding for LSF job processes
 Processor binding for parallel jobs
 By default, there is no processor binding.
Enabling processor binding for LSF job processes
About this task
LSF supports the following binding options for sequential jobs and parallel jobs that run on a single host:
BALANCE
PACK
ANY
USER
USER_CPU_LIST
NONE
Procedure
Enable processor binding cluster-wide or in an application proﬁle.
Cluster-wide conﬁguration (lsf.conf)
Deﬁne LSF_BIND_JOB in lsf.conf to enable processor binding for all execution hosts in the cluster. On the execution hosts that support this
feature, job processes are hard bound to selected processors.
Application proﬁle conﬁguration (lsb.applications)
Deﬁne BIND_JOB in an application proﬁle conﬁguration in lsb.applications to enable processor binding for all jobs that are submitted to the
application proﬁle. On the execution hosts that support this feature, job processes are hard bound to selected processors.
If BIND_JOB is not set in an application proﬁle in lsb.applications, the value of LSF_BIND_JOB in lsf.conf takes effect. The BIND_JOB parameter that
is conﬁgured in an application proﬁle overrides the lsf.conf setting.
Note: BIND_JOB and LSF_BIND_JOB are deprecated in LSF Standard Edition. You should enable LSF CPU and memory afﬁnity scheduling in with the
AFFINITY parameter in lsb.hosts. If both BIND_JOB and afﬁnity scheduling are enabled, afﬁnity scheduling takes effect, and BIND_JOB is disabled.
If both LSF_BIND_JOB and afﬁnity scheduling are enabled, afﬁnity scheduling takes effect, and LSF_BIND_JOB is disabled. BIND_JOB and
LSF_BIND_JOB are the only afﬁnity options available in LSF Express Edition.
Processor binding for parallel jobs
By default, there is no processor binding.
IBM Spectrum LSF 729

For multi-host parallel jobs, LSF sets two environment variables ($LSB_BIND_JOB and $LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST) but does not attempt to bind the job
to any host even if you enable the processor binding.
Re-sizable jobs
Adding slots to or removing slots from a re-sizable job triggers unbinding and rebinding of job processes. Rebinding does not guarantee that the
processes can be bound to the same processors they were bound to previously.
If a multi-host parallel job becomes a single-host parallel job after resizing, LSF does not bind it.
If a single-host parallel job or sequential job becomes a multi-host parallel job after resizing, LSF does not bind it.
After unbinding and binding, the job CPU afﬁnity is changed. LSF puts the new CPU list in the LSB_BIND_CPU_LIST environment variable and the
binding method to LSB_BIND_JOB environment variable. And it is the responsibility of the notiﬁcation command to tell the job that CPU binding has
changed.
Running parallel jobs with blaunch
Learn how to conﬁgure and use the blaunch command for launching parallel and distributed applications within LSF. Task geometry allows for
flexibility in how tasks are grouped for execution on system nodes. A typical LSF parallel job launches its tasks across multiple hosts. By default you
can enforce limits on the total resources used by all the tasks in the job.
blaunch distributed application framework
 Most MPI implementations and many distributed applications use rsh and ssh as their task launching mechanism. The blaunch command
provides a drop-in replacement for rsh and ssh as a transparent method for launching parallel and distributed applications within LSF.
SGI vendor MPI support
 Run your SGI MPI jobs through LSF.
Running jobs with task geometry
 Specifying task geometry allows you to group tasks of a parallel job step to run together on the same node. Task geometry allows for flexibility
in how tasks are grouped for execution on system nodes. You cannot specify the particular nodes that these groups run on; the scheduler
decides which nodes run the speciﬁed groupings.
Enforcing resource usage limits for parallel tasks
 A typical LSF parallel job launches its tasks across multiple hosts. By default you can enforce limits on the total resources used by all the tasks
in the job.
blaunch distributed application framework
Most MPI implementations and many distributed applications use rsh and ssh as their task launching mechanism. The blaunch command provides a
drop-in replacement for rsh and ssh as a transparent method for launching parallel and distributed applications within LSF.
About the blaunch command
The following ﬁgure illustrates blaunch processing:
730    IBM Spectrum LSF

Similar to the LSF lsrun command, blaunch transparently connects directly to the RES and sbatchd on the remote host, and subsequently creates
and tracks the remote tasks, and provides the connection back to LSF. You do not need to insert pam or taskstarter into the rsh or ssh calling
sequence, or conﬁgure any wrapper scripts.
blaunch supports the following core command line options as rsh and ssh:
rsh host_name command
ssh host_name command
The host name value for rsh and ssh can only be a single host name, so you can use the -z option to specify a space-delimited list of hosts where
tasks are started in parallel. All other rsh and ssh options are silently ignored.
You cannot run the blaunch command directly from the command line as a standalone command. blaunch only works within an LSF job; it can only
be used to launch tasks on remote hosts that are part of a job allocation. On success, blaunch exits with 0.
Restriction: You cannot run concurrent blaunch commands in background mode.
blaunch is supported on Windows 2000 or later with the following exceptions:
Only the following signals are supported: SIGKILL, SIGSTOP, SIGCONT.
The -n option is not supported.
CMD.EXE /C <user command line> is used as intermediate command shell when -no-shell is not speciﬁed
CMD.EXE /C is not used when -no-shell is speciﬁed.
Windows User Account Control must be conﬁgured correctly to run jobs.
LSF APIs for the blaunch distributed application framework
LSF provides the following APIs for programming your own applications to use the blaunch distributed application framework:
lsb_launch(): Synchronous API call to allow source level integration with vendor MPI implementations. This API launches the speciﬁed
command (argv) on the remote nodes in parallel. LSF must be installed before integrating your MPI implementation with lsb_launch(). The
lsb_launch() API requires the full set of liblsf.so, libbat.so (or liblsf.a, libbat.a).
lsb_getalloc(): Allocates memory for a host list to be used for launching parallel tasks through blaunch and the lsb_launch() API. It is the
responsibility of the caller to free the host list when it is no longer needed. On success, the host list is a list of strings. Before freeing the host
list, the individual elements must be freed. An application using the lsb_getalloc() API is assumed to be part of an LSF job, and that
LSB_MCPU_HOSTS is set in the environment.
The blaunch job environment
blaunch determines from the job environment what job it is running under, and what the allocation for the job is. These can be determined by
examining the environment variables LSB_JOBID, LSB_JOBINDEX, and LSB_MCPU_HOSTS. If any of these variables do not exist, blaunch exits with
a non-zero value. Similarly, if blaunch is used to start a task on a host not listed in LSB_MCPU_HOSTS, the command exits with a non-zero value.
The job submission script contains the blaunch command in place of rsh or ssh. The blaunch command does sanity checking of the environment to
check for LSB_JOBID and LSB_MCPU_HOSTS. The blaunch command contacts the job RES to validate the information determined from the job
environment. When the job RES receives the validation request from blaunch, it registers with the root sbatchd to handle signals for the job.
IBM Spectrum LSF 731

The job RES periodically requests resource usage for the remote tasks. This message also acts as a heartbeat for the job. If a resource usage request
is not made within a certain period of time it is assumed the job is gone and that the remote tasks should be shut down. This timeout is conﬁgurable
in an application proﬁle in lsb.applications.
The blaunch command also honors the parameters LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK, LSB_DEBUG_CMD, and LSB_CMD_LOGDIR when deﬁned in lsf.conf or as
environment variables. The environment variables take precedence over the values in lsf.conf.
To ensure that no other users can run jobs on hosts allocated to tasks launched by blaunch set the LSF_DISABLE_LSRUN=Y parameter in the lsf.conf
ﬁle. When the LSF_DISABLE_LSRUN=Y parameter is deﬁned, RES refuses remote connections from lsrun and lsgrun unless the user is either an LSF
administrator or root. The LSF_ROOT_REX parameter must be deﬁned for remote execution by root. Other remote execution commands, such as ch
and lsmake are not affected.
Job control actions deﬁned in the JOB_CONTROLS parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle only take effect on the ﬁrst execution host. Job control actions
deﬁned in the queue do no affect tasks running on other hosts. If the JOB_CONTROLS parameter is deﬁned, the default job control signals of LSF
(SUSPEND, RESUME, TERMINATE) do not reach each task on each execution host.
Temporary directory for tasks launched by blaunch
By default, LSF creates a temporary directory for a job only on the ﬁrst execution host. If the LSF_TMPDIR parameter is set in the lsf.conf ﬁle, the path
of the job temporary directory on the ﬁrst execution host is set to LSF_TMPDIR/job_ID.tmpdir.
If the LSB_SET_TMPDIR= Y parameter is set, the environment variable TMPDIR will be set equal to the path speciﬁed by LSF_TMPDIR. This value for
TMPDIR overrides any value that might be set in the submission environment.
Tasks launched through the blaunch distributed application framework make use of the LSF temporary directory speciﬁed by the LSF_TMPDIR
parameter:
When the environment variable TMPDIR is set on the ﬁrst execution host, the blaunch framework propagates this environment variable to all
execution hosts when launching remote tasks.
The job RES or the task RES creates the directory speciﬁed by TMPDIR if it does not already exist before starting the job.
The directory created by the job RES or task RES has permission 0700 and is owned by the execution user.
If the TMPDIR directory was created by the task RES, LSF deletes the temporary directory and its contents when the task is complete.
If the TMPDIR directory was created by the job RES, LSF will delete the temporary directory and its contents when the job is done.
If the TMPDIR directory is on a shared ﬁle system, it is assumed to be shared by all the hosts allocated to the blaunch job, so LSF does not
remove TMPDIR directories created by the job RES or task RES.
Automatic generation of the job host ﬁle
LSF automatically places the allocated hosts for a job into the $LSB_HOSTS and $LSB_MCPU_HOSTS environment variables. Since most MPI
implementations and parallel applications expect to read the allocated hosts from a ﬁle, LSF creates a host ﬁle in the default job output directory
$HOME/.lsbatch on the execution host before the job runs, and deletes it after the job has ﬁnished running. The name of the host ﬁle created has the
format:
.lsb.<jobid>.hostﬁle
The host ﬁle contains one host per line. For example, if LSB_MCPU_HOSTS="hostA 2 hostB 2 hostC 1", the host ﬁle contains the following host
names:
hostA
hostA
hostB
hostB
hostC
LSF publishes the full path to the host ﬁle by setting the environment variable LSB_DJOB_HOSTFILE.
Handle remote task exit
You can conﬁgure an application proﬁle in lsb.applications to control the behavior of a parallel or distributed application when a remote task exits.
Specify a value for the RTASK_GONE_ACTION parameter in the application proﬁle to deﬁne what the LSF does when a remote task exits. The default
behavior is as follows:
When task exits with zero value, LSF does nothing.
When task exits with non-zero value, LSF does nothing.
When task crashes, LSF shuts down the entire job.
The RTASK_GONE_ACTION parameter has the following syntax:
RTASK_GONE_ACTION="[KILLJOB_TASKDONE | KILLJOB_TASKEXIT]
[IGNORE_TASKCRASH]"
732    IBM Spectrum LSF

Where:
The IGNORE_TASKCRASH parameter: A remote task crashes. LSF does nothing. The job continues to launch the next task.
The KILLJOB_TASKDONE parameter: A remote task exits with zero value. LSF terminates all tasks in the job.
The KILLJOB_TASKEXIT parameter: A remote task exits with non-zero value. LSF terminates all tasks in the job.
For example:
RTASK_GONE_ACTION="IGNORE_TASKCRASH KILLJOB_TASKEXIT"
The RTASK_GONE_ACTION parameter only applies to the blaunch distributed application framework. When deﬁned in an application proﬁle, the
LSB_DJOB_RTASK_GONE_ACTION variable is set when running bsub -app for the speciﬁed application. You can also use the environment variable
LSB_DJOB_RTASK_GONE_ACTION to override the value set in the application proﬁle.
The RTASK_GONE_ACTION=IGNORE_TASKCRASH parameter has no effect on PE jobs: When a user application is killed, POE triggers the job to quit.
Handling communication failure
By default, LSF shuts down the entire job if connection is lost with the task RES, validation timeout, or heartbeat timeout. You can conﬁgure an
application proﬁle in lsb.applications so only the current tasks are shut down, not the entire job.
Use the DJOB_COMMFAIL_ACTION="KILL_TASKS" parameter to deﬁne the behavior of LSF when it detects a communication failure between itself
and one or more tasks. If not deﬁned, LSF terminates all tasks, and shuts down the job. If set to KILL_TASKS, LSF tries to kill all the current tasks of a
parallel or distributed job associated with the communication failure.
The DJOB_COMMFAIL_ACTION parameter only applies to the blaunch distributed application framework. When deﬁned in an application proﬁle, the
LSB_DJOB_COMMFAIL_ACTION environment variable is set when running bsub -app for the speciﬁed application.
Set up job launching environment
LSF can run an appropriate script that is responsible for setup and cleanup of the job launching environment. You can specify the name of the
appropriate script in an application proﬁle in lsb.applications.
Use the DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT parameter to deﬁne the path to a script that sets the environment for the parallel or distributed job launcher. The script
runs as the user, and is part of the job. The DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT parameter only applies to the blaunch distributed application framework. If a full
path is speciﬁed, LSF uses the path name for the execution. If a full path is not speciﬁed, LSF looks for it in LSF_BINDIR.
The speciﬁed script must support a setup argument and a cleanup argument. LSF invokes the script with the setup argument before launching the
actual job to set up the environment, and with cleanup argument after the job is ﬁnished.
LSF assumes that if setup cannot be performed, the environment to run the job does not exist. If the script returns a non-zero value at setup, an error
is printed to stderr of the job, and the job exits. Regardless of the return value of the script at cleanup, the real job exit value is used. If the return
value of the script is non-zero, an error message is printed to stderr of the job.
When deﬁned in an application proﬁle, the LSB_DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT variable is set when running bsub -app for the speciﬁed application. For
example, if DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT=mpich.script, LSF runs the $LSF_BINDIR/mpich.script setup script to set up the environment to run an MPICH job.
After the job completes, LSF runs the $LSF_BINDIR/mpich.script script for cleanup
On cleanup, the mpich.script ﬁle could, for example, remove any temporary ﬁles and release resources used by the job. Changes to the
LSB_DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT environment variable made by the script are visible to the job.
Update job heartbeat and resource usage
Use the DJOB_HB_INTERVAL parameter in an application proﬁle in lsb.applications to conﬁgure an interval in seconds used to update the heartbeat
between LSF and the tasks of a parallel or distributed job. The DJOB_HB_INTERVAL parameter only applies to the blaunch distributed application
framework. When the DJOB_HB_INTERVAL parameter is speciﬁed, the interval is scaled according to the number of tasks in the job:
max(DJOB_HB_INTERVAL, 10) + host_factor
where host_factor = 0.01 * number of hosts allocated for the job.
When deﬁned in an application proﬁle, the LSB_DJOB_HB_INTERVAL variable is set in the parallel or distributed job environment. You should not
manually change the value of LSB_DJOB_HB_INTERVAL.
By default, the interval is equal to the SBD_SLEEP_TIME parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle, where the default value of SBD_SLEEP_TIME is 30 seconds.
How blaunch supports task geometry and process group ﬁles
The current support for task geometry in LSF requires the user submitting a job to specify the wanted task geometry by setting the environment
variable LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY in their submission environment before job submission. LSF checks for LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY and modiﬁes
LSB_MCPU_HOSTS appropriately.
IBM Spectrum LSF 733

The environment variable LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY is checked for all parallel jobs. If LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY is set users submit a parallel job (a job that
requests more than 1 slot), LSF attempts to shape LSB_MCPU_HOSTS accordingly.
The LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY variable was introduced to replace the LSB_PJL_TASK_GEOMETRY variable, which is kept for compatibility with earlier
versions. However, task geometry does not work using blaunch alone; it works with the PE/blaunch integration.
Resource collection for all commands in a job script
Parallel and distributed jobs are typically launched with a job script. If your job script runs multiple commands, you can ensure that resource usage is
collected correctly for all commands in a job script by conﬁguring the LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS=CUMULATIVE_RUSAGE parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Resource usage is collected for jobs in the job script, rather than being overwritten when each command is executed.
Resizable jobs and blaunch
Because a resizable job can be resized any time, the blaunch framework is aware of the newly added resources (hosts) or released resources. When
a validation request comes with those additional resources, the blaunch framework accepts the request and launches the remote tasks accordingly.
When part of an allocation is released, the blaunch framework makes sure no remote tasks are running on those released resources, by terminating
remote tasks on the released hosts if any. Any further validation requests with those released resources are rejected.
The blaunch framework provides the following functionality for resizable jobs:
The blaunch command and lsb_getalloc() API call accesses up to date resource allocation through the LSB_DJOB_HOSTFILE environment
variable
Validation request (to launch remote tasks) with the additional resources succeeds.
Validation request (to launch remote tasks) with the released resources fails.
Remote tasks on the released resources are terminated and the blaunch framework terminates tasks on a host when the host has been
completely removed from the allocation.
When releasing resources, LSF allows a conﬁgurable grace period (the DJOB_RESIZE_ GRACE_PERIOD parameter in the lsb.applications ﬁle)
for tasks to clean up and exit themselves. By default, there is no grace period.
When remote tasks are launched on new additional hosts but the notiﬁcation command fails, those remote tasks are terminated.
Note: Automatic job resizing is a signaling mechanism only. It does not expand the extent of the original job launched with blaunch. The resize
notiﬁcation script is required along with a signal listening script. The signal listening script runs additional blaunch commands on notiﬁcation to
allocate the resized resources to make them available to the job tasks. For help creating signal listening and notiﬁcation scripts, contact IBM
Support.
Submitting jobs with blaunch
Use bsub to call blaunch, or to invoke an execution script that calls blaunch. The blaunch command assumes that bsub -n implies one task per job
slot.
Submit a job:
bsub -n 4 blaunch myjob
Submit a job to launch tasks on a speciﬁc host:
bsub -n 4 blaunch hostA myjob
Submit a job with a host list:
bsub -n 4 blaunch -z "hostA hostB" myjob
Submit a job with a host ﬁle:
bsub -n 4 blaunch -u ./hostfile myjob
Submit a job to an application proﬁle
bsub -n 4 -app djob blaunch myjob
Launching ANSYS jobs
To launch an ANSYS job through LSF using the blaunch framework, substitute the path to rsh or ssh with the path to blaunch. For example:
#BSUB -o stdout.txt 
#BSUB -e stderr.txt 
# Note: This case statement should be used to set up any 
# environment variables needed to run the different versions 
# of Ansys. All versions in this case statement that have the 
# string "version list entry" on the same line will appear as 
# choices in the Ansys service submission page. 
  
case $VERSION in 
 10.0)  #version list entry 
        export ANSYS_DIR=/usr/share/app/ansys_inc/v100/Ansys 
        export ANSYSLMD_LICENSE_FILE=1051@licserver.company.com 
       export MPI_REMSH=/opt/lsf/bin/blaunch 
734    IBM Spectrum LSF

        program=${ANSYS_DIR}/bin/ansys100 
        ;; 
  *) 
        echo "Invalid version ($VERSION) specified" 
        exit 1 
        ;; 
esac 
  
if [ -z "$JOBNAME" ]; then 
    export JOBNAME=ANSYS-$$ 
fi 
  
if [ $CPUS -eq 1 ]; then 
    ${program} -p ansys -j $JOBNAME -s read -l en-us -b -i $INPUT $OPTS 
else 
    if [ $MEMORY_ARCH = "Distributed" ] Then 
      HOSTLIST=`echo $LSB_HOSTS | sed s/" "/":1:"/g` ${program} -j $JOBNAME - p 
ansys -pp -dis -machines \ 
    ${HOSTLIST}:1 -i $INPUT $OPTS 
    else 
       ${program} -j $JOBNAME -p ansys -pp -dis -np $CPUS \ 
    -i $INPUT $OPTS 
    fi 
fi 
blaunch parameters
The blaunch application framework uses the following parameters:
LSF_RES_ALIVE_TIMEOUT
LSF_DJOB_TASK_REG_WAIT_TIME
LSB_FANOUT_TIMEOUT_PER_LAYER
LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY
This parameter replaces the LSB_PJL_TASK_GEOMETRY parameter.
For details on these parameters, see the IBM® Spectrum LSF Conﬁguration Reference.
SGI vendor MPI support
Run your SGI MPI jobs through LSF.
Compiling and linking your MPI program
You must use the SGI C compiler (cc by default). You cannot use mpicc to build your programs.
Conﬁguring LSF to work with SGI MPI
To use 32-bit or 64-bit SGI MPI with LSF, set the following parameters in lsf.conf:
Set LSF_VPLUGIN to the full path to the MPI library libxmpi.so.
You can specify multiple paths for LSF_VPLUGIN, separated by colons (:). For example, the following conﬁgures both /usr/lib32/libxmpi.so and
/usr/lib/libxmpi.so:
LSF_VPLUGIN="/usr/lib32/libxmpi.so:/usr/lib/libxmpi.so"
For PAM to access the libxmpi.so library, the ﬁle permission mode must be 755 (-rwxr-xr-x).
To run a mulithost MPI applications, you must also enable rsh without password prompt between hosts:
The remote host must be deﬁned in the arrayd conﬁguration.
Conﬁgure .rhosts so that rsh does not require a password.
Running jobs
To run a job and have LSF select the host, the command mpirun -np 4 a.out is entered as:
bsub -n 4 pam -mpi -auto_place a.out
To run a single-host job and have LSF select the host, the command mpirun -np 4 a.out is entered as:
bsub -n 4 -R "span[hosts=1]" pam -mpi -auto_place a.out
IBM Spectrum LSF 735

To run a multihost job (5 processors per host) and have LSF select the hosts, the following command:
mpirun hosta -np 5 a.out: hostb -np 5 a.out
is entered as:
bsub -n 10 -R "span[ptile=5]" pam -mpi -auto_place a.out
Limitations
The mbatchd and sbatchd daemons take a few seconds to get the process IDs and process group IDs of the PAM jobs from the SGI MPI
components. If you use bstop, bresume, or bkill before this happens, uncontrolled MPI child processes may be left running.
A single MPI job cannot run on a heterogeneous architecture. The entire job must run on systems of a single architecture.
Running jobs with task geometry
Specifying task geometry allows you to group tasks of a parallel job step to run together on the same node. Task geometry allows for flexibility in how
tasks are grouped for execution on system nodes. You cannot specify the particular nodes that these groups run on; the scheduler decides which
nodes run the speciﬁed groupings.
Using the task geometry environment variable
Use the LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY environment variable to specify task geometry for your jobs. LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY replaces
LSB_PJL_TASK_GEOMETRY, which is kept for compatibility with earlier versionsLSB_TASK_GEOMETRY overrides any process group or command ﬁle
placement options.
The environment variable LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY is checked for all parallel jobs. If LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY is set users submit a parallel job (a job that
requests more than 1 slot), LSF attempts to shape LSB_MCPU_HOSTS accordingly.
The mpirun.lsf script sets the LSB_MCPU_HOSTS environment variable in the job according to the task geometry speciﬁcation.
The syntax is:
setenv LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY "{(task_ID,...) ...}"
For example, to submit a job to spawn 8 tasks and span 4 nodes, specify:
setenv LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY "{(2,5,7)(0,6)(1,3)(4)}"
The results are:
Tasks 2, 5, and 7 run on one node
Tasks 0 and 6 run on another node
Tasks 1 and 3 run on a third node
Task 4 runs on one node alone
Each task_ID number corresponds to a task ID in a job and each set of parenthesis contains the task IDs assigned to one node. Tasks can appear in
any order, but the entire range of tasks speciﬁed must begin with 0, and must include all task ID numbers; you cannot skip a task ID number. Use
braces to enclose the entire task geometry speciﬁcation, and use parentheses to enclose groups of nodes. Use commas to separate task IDs.
For example:
setenv LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY "{(1)(2)}"
is incorrect because it does not start from task 0.
setenv LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY "{(0)(3)}"
is incorrect because it does not specify task 1and 2.
LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY cannot request more hosts than speciﬁed by the bsub -n option. For example:
setenv LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY "{(0)(1)(2)}"
speciﬁes three nodes, one task per node. A correct job submission must request at least 3 hosts:
bsub -n 3 -R "span[ptile=1]" -I -a pe mpirun.lsf my_job
Job <564> is submitted to queue <hpc_linux>
<<Waiting for dispatch ...>>
<<Starting on hostA>>
...
736    IBM Spectrum LSF

Planning your task geometry speciﬁcation
You should plan task geometry in advance and specify the job resource requirements for LSF to select hosts appropriately.
Use bsub -n and -R "span[ptile=]" to make sure LSF selects appropriate hosts to run the job, so that:
The correct number of nodes is speciﬁed
All exceution hosts have the same number of available slots
The ptile value is the maximum number of CPUs required on one node by task geometry speciﬁcations.
LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY only guarantees the geometry but does not guarantee the host order. You must make sure each host selected by LSF can run
any group of tasks speciﬁed in LSB_TASK_GEOMETRY.
You can also use bsub -x to run jobs exclusively on a host. No other jobs share the node once this job is scheduled.
Enforcing resource usage limits for parallel tasks
A typical LSF parallel job launches its tasks across multiple hosts. By default you can enforce limits on the total resources used by all the tasks in the
job.
Resource usage limits
Since PAM only reports the sum of parallel task resource usage, LSF does not enforce resource usage limits on individual tasks in a parallel job. For
example, resource usage limits cannot control allocated memory of a single task of a parallel job to prevent it from allocating memory and bringing
down the entire system. For some jobs, the total resource usage may be exceed a conﬁgured resource usage limit even if no single task does, and the
job is terminated when it does not need to be.
Attempting to limit individual tasks by setting a system-level swap hard limit (RLIMIT_AS) in the system limit conﬁguration ﬁle
(/etc/security/limits.conf) is not satisfactory, because it only prevents tasks running on that host from allocating more memory than they should;
other tasks in the job can continue to run, with unpredictable results.
By default, custom job controls (the JOB_CONTROL parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle) apply only to the entire job, not individual parallel tasks.
Enabling resource usage limit enforcement for parallel tasks
Use the LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS options TASK_SWAPLIMIT and TASK_MEMLIMIT in lsf.conf to enable resource usage limit enforcement and job
control for parallel tasks. When the TASK_SWAPLIMIT parameter or the TASK_MEMLIMIT parameter is set in the LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS parameter,
LSF terminates the entire parallel job if any single task exceeds the limit setting for memory and swap limits.
Other resource usage limits (CPU limit, process limit, run limit, and so on) continue to be enforced for the entire job, not for individual tasks.
Assumptions and behavior
To enforce resource usage limits by parallel task, you must use the LSF generic Parallel Job Launcher (PJL) framework (PAM/TS) to launch
your parallel jobs.
This feature only affects parallel jobs monitored by PAM. It has no effect on other LSF jobs.
The LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS=TASK_SWAPLIMIT parameter overrides the default behavior of swap limits (bsub -v, bmod -v, or SWAPLIMIT in
lsb.queues).
The LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS=TASK_MEMLIMIT parameter overrides the default behavior of memory limits (bsub -M, bmod -M, or MEMLIMIT
in lsb.queues).
The LSF_HPC_EXTENSIONS=TASK_MEMLIMIT parameter overrides LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE=Y or LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=Y in lsf.conf
When a parallel job is terminated because of task limit enforcement, LSF sets a value in the LSB_JOBEXIT_INFO environment variable for any
post-execution programs:
LSB_JOBEXIT_INFO=SIGNAL -29 SIG_TERM_SWAPLIMIT
LSB_JOBEXIT_INFO=SIGNAL -25 SIG_TERM_MEMLIMIT
When a parallel job is terminated because of task limit enforcement, LSF logs the job termination reason in lsb.acct ﬁle:
TERM_SWAP for swap limit
TERM_MEMLIMIT for memory limit
bacct displays the termination reason.
Advance reservation
Advance reservations ensure access to speciﬁc hosts or slots during speciﬁed times. During the time that an advance reservation is active only users
or groups associated with the reservation have access to start new jobs on the reserved hosts or slots.
IBM Spectrum LSF 737

Types of advance reservations
Advance reservations ensure access to speciﬁc hosts or slots during speciﬁed times. During the time that an advance reservation is active only
users or groups associated with the reservation have access to start new jobs on the reserved hosts or slots.
Enable advance reservation
To enable advance reservation in your cluster, make sure the advance reservation scheduling plug-in schmod_advrsv is conﬁgured in the
lsb.modules ﬁle.
Allowing users to create advance reservations
By default, only LSF administrators or root can add or delete advance reservations. To allow other users to create and delete advance
reservations, conﬁgure advance reservation user policies. Use the ResourceReservation section of the lsb.resources ﬁle.
Use advance reservation
Use advance reservation commands to add, delete, modify, and view reservations in your system.
Types of advance reservations
Advance reservations ensure access to speciﬁc hosts or slots during speciﬁed times. During the time that an advance reservation is active only users
or groups associated with the reservation have access to start new jobs on the reserved hosts or slots.
Slot-based advance reservations reserve a number of slots among a group of hosts. Host-based advance reservations exclusively reserve a number
of hosts, as speciﬁed by the user. Each reserved host is reserved in its entirety.
Only LSF administrators or root can create or delete advance reservations. Any LSF user can view existing advance reservations.
Each reservation consists of the number of job slots or hosts to reserve, a list of candidate hosts for the reservation, a start time, an end time, and an
owner. You can also specify a resource requirement string instead of or in addition to a list of hosts or slots.
Active reservations
When a reservation becomes active, LSF attempts to run all jobs associated with the reservation. By default, jobs running before the reservation
became active continue to run when the reservation becomes active. When a job associated with the reservation is pending, LSF suspends all jobs
not associated with the reservation that are running on the required hosts.
During the time the reservation is active, only users or groups associated with the reservation have access to start new jobs on the reserved hosts.
The reservation is active only within the time frame that is speciﬁed, and any given host may have several reservations in place, some of which may
be active at the same time.
Jobs are suspended only if advance reservation jobs require the slots or hosts. Jobs using a reservation are subject to all job resource usage limits,
but any resources freed by suspending non-advance reservation jobs are available for advance reservation jobs to use.
Closed and open reservations
Reservations are typically closed. When a closed reservation expires, LSF kills jobs running in the reservation and allows any suspended jobs to run
when the reservation becomes active.
Open advance reservations allow jobs to run even after the associated reservation expires. A job in the open advance reservation is only treated as an
advance reservation job during the reservation window, after which it becomes a normal job. This prevents the job from being killed and makes sure
that LSF does not prevent any previously suspended jobs from running or interfering with any existing scheduling policies.
Jobs running in a one-time, open reservation are detached from the reservation and suspended when the reservation expires, allowing them to be
scheduled as regular jobs. Jobs submitted before the reservation became active are still suspended when the reservation becomes active. These are
only resumed after the open reservation jobs ﬁnish.
Jobs running in a closed recurring reservation are killed when the reservation expires.
Jobs running in an open recurring reservation are suspended when the reservation expires, and remain pending until the reservation becomes active
again to resume.
If a non-advance reservation job is submitted while the open reservation is active, it remains pending until the reservation expires. Any advance
reservation jobs that were suspended and became normal jobs when the reservation expired are resumed ﬁrst before dispatching the non-advance
reservation job submitted while the reservation was active.
System reservations
Reservations can also be created for system maintenance. If a system reservation is active, no other jobs can use the reserved slots or hosts, and LSF
does not dispatch jobs to the speciﬁed hosts while the reservation is active.
Dynamically scheduled reservations
738    IBM Spectrum LSF

A dynamically scheduled reservation accepts jobs based on currently available resources. Use the brsvsub command to create a dynamically
scheduled reservation and submit a job to to ﬁll the advance reservation when the resources required by the job are available.
Jobs that are scheduled for the reservation run when the reservation is active. Because they are scheduled like jobs, dynamically scheduled
reservations do not interfere with running workload (unlike normal advance reservations, which kill any running jobs when the reservation window
opens.)
Jobs in a dynamically scheduled reservation remain pending until resources are available and the advance reservation becomes active. The
reservation can request whole nodes if necessary.
Instead of starting at a predeﬁned time, jobs start whenever the resources for reservation are available. You can also query whether a scheduled
reservation can actually be fulﬁlled.
Enable advance reservation
To enable advance reservation in your cluster, make sure the advance reservation scheduling plug-in schmod_advrsv is conﬁgured in the
lsb.modules ﬁle.
Begin PluginModule 
SCH_PLUGIN               RB_PLUGIN                SCH_DISABLE_PHASES 
schmod_default              ()                              () 
schmod_advrsv               ()                              () 
End PluginModule
Allowing users to create advance reservations
By default, only LSF administrators or root can add or delete advance reservations. To allow other users to create and delete advance reservations,
conﬁgure advance reservation user policies. Use the ResourceReservation section of the lsb.resources ﬁle.
About this task
Note: The USER_ADVANCE_RESERVATION in the lsb.params ﬁle is obsolete from LSF Version 9 and later.
Procedure
Use the ResourceReservation section of the lsb.resources ﬁle to conﬁgure advance reservation policies for users in your cluster.
A ResourceReservation section contains the following information:
Users or user groups that can create reservations
Hosts that can be used for the reservation
Time window when reservations can be created.
Each advance reservation policy is deﬁned in a separate ResourceReservation section, so it is normal to have multiple ResourceReservation
sections in a lsb.resources ﬁle.
In the following policy, only user1 and user2 can make advance reservations on hostA and hostB. The reservation time window is between 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. every day:
Begin ResourceReservation 
NAME        = dayPolicy 
USERS       = user1 user2    # optional 
HOSTS       = hostA hostB    # optional 
TIME_WINDOW = 8:00-18:00     # weekly recurring reservation 
End ResourceReservation  
user1 can add the following reservation for user2 to use on hostA every Friday between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.:
brsvadd -m "hostA" -n 1 -u "user2" -t "5:9:0-5:11:0" 
Reservation "user1#2" is created 
Users can only delete reservations that they created themselves. In the example, only user user1 can delete the reservation; user2 cannot.
Administrators can delete any reservations that are created by users.
In the following policy, all users in user group ugroup1 except user1 can make advance reservations on any host in hgroup1, except hostB,
between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. every day.
Begin ResourceReservation 
NAME        = nightPolicy 
USERS       = ugroup1 ~user1 
HOSTS       = hgroup1 ~hostB 
IBM Spectrum LSF 739

TIME_WINDOW = 20:00-8:00  
End ResourceReservation 
Important:
The not operator (~) does not exclude LSF administrators from the policy.
Example
1. Deﬁne a policy for user1:
Policy Name: dayPolicy 
Users: user1 
Hosts: hostA 
Time Window:  8:00-18:00 
2. user1 creates a reservation matching the policy (the creator is user1, the user is user2):
brsvadd -n 1 -m hostA -u user2 -b 10:00 -e 12:00  
user1#0 is created.  
3. User user1 modiﬁes the policy to remove user1 from the users list:
Policy Name: dayPolicy 
Users: user3 
Hosts: hostA 
Time Window:  8:00-18:00 
4. As the creator, user1 can modify the reservation with the brsvmod command options rmhost, -u, -o, -on, -d, and the subcommands adduser
and rmuser. However, user1 cannot add hosts or change the time window of the reservation.
Use advance reservation
Use advance reservation commands to add, delete, modify, and view reservations in your system.
Use the following commands with advance reservations:
brsvadd
Add a reservation.
brsvdel
Delete a reservation.
brsvmod
Modify a reservation.
brsvs
View reservations.
Job scheduling in advance reservations
LSF treats advance reservation like other deadlines, such as dispatch windows or run windows. LSF does not schedule jobs that are likely to be
suspended when a reservation becomes active. Jobs that are running in the reservation are killed when the reservation expires.
When the total number of slots on the reserved host is changed for whatever reason, LSF immediately updates the host reservation to reserve the
new total number of slots or CPUs. The total number of slots change under the following conditions:
Host status becomes UNAVAIL. LSF sets the number of slots to 1 because LSF cannot detect the correct information.
The MXJ conﬁguration in the lsb.hosts ﬁle changes
A host is updated with the bconf command.
The SLOTS_PER_PROCESSOR parameter in the lsb.resources ﬁle changes
The SLOTS parameter in the lsb.resources ﬁle changes
Note:
If the IGNORE_DEADLINE=Y parameter is speciﬁed, advance reservations are not affected. Jobs are always prevented from starting if they might
encounter an advance reservation.
Reservation policy checking
The following table summarizes how advance reservation commands interpret reservation policy conﬁgurations in the lsb.resources ﬁle:
Command   Policy checked
    Creator Host Time window
brsvadd   Yes Yes Yes
740    IBM Spectrum LSF

Command   Policy checked
    Creator Host Time window
brsvdel   No No No
brsvmod -u (changing user and user groups)No No No
adduser No No No
rmuser No No No
addhost Yes Yes Yes
rmhost No No No
-b, -e, -t (change time window) Yes Yes Yes
-d (description) No No No
-o or -on No No No
Reservation policies are checked at the following times:
The reservation time window is changed.
Hosts are added to the reservation.
Reservation policies are not checked under the following conditions:
Running brsvmod to remove hosts
Changing the reservation type (open or closed)
Changing users or user groups for the reservation
Modifying the reservation description
Adding or removing users and user groups to or from the reservation
Adding an advance reservation
 Use the brsvadd command to create new advance reservations.
Changing an advance reservation
 Use the brsvmod command to change an existing advance reservation.
Removing an advance reservation
 Use the brsvdel command to delete reservations.
Viewing advance reservation information
 Use the brsvs command to view information about advance reservations. You can see all current reservations, show a weekly planner for your
reservations, or see reservation types and their associated jobs. Use the bjobs command to see the reservation ID for an advance reservation
job. Use the bacct command to view historical accounting information for advance reservations.
Submitting and modifying jobs that use advance reservations
 The -U option of the bsub command submits jobs with a reservation ID.
Viewing jobs that are associated with an advance reservation
 Advance reservation behavior and operations
 A job that uses a reservation is subject to all job resource usage limits. Advance reservation preemption allows advance reservation jobs to
use the slots that are reserved by the reservation. You can create and use advance reservations for the LSF multicluster capability job
forwarding model. Resizable jobs and jobs with compute unit resource requirements can be dispatched only after the advance reservation
becomes active.
Adding an advance reservation
Use the brsvadd command to create new advance reservations.
About this task
Note: By default, only LSF administrators or root can add or delete advance reservations.
Procedure
On the brsvadd command, specify the following properties of the reservation.
Number of job slots or hosts to reserve. This number must be less than or equal to the actual number of slots or hosts, which are selected by
the -m or -R option.
The unit (slots or hosts) to use for the reservation. By default (without the -unit option), the brsvadd command creates a slot-based
reservation. Create a host-based reservation by specifying the -unit host option, or a slot-based reservation with -unit slot.
Hosts for the reservation
Owners of the reservation
Time period for the reservation. Specify one of the following time periods:
Begin time and end time for a one-time reservation.
Time window for a recurring reservation.
Note: Advance reservations must be 10 minutes or more in length.
IBM Spectrum LSF 741

If the reservations overlap other advance reservations that begin or end within a 10-minute time period, they might be rejected.
A day is divided into 144 periods, and each period lasts for 10 minutes (0:0-0:10, 0:10-0:20, up to 23:50-24:00). If the start time or end time
of a reservation is in the middle of a time period, LSF reserves the entire period. For example, if one reservation begins at 1:22 and ends at
4:24, a reservation request that starts at 4:25 is rejected because it lies within the already reserved 4:20-4:30 time period.
For placeholder reservations, the user or user group name that uses the reservation is required. Optionally, you can specify a name and
description for the reservation.
The brsvadd command returns a reservation ID that you use when you submit a job that needs the reserved hosts. Any single user or user group can
have a maximum of 100 reservation IDs.
Specifying hosts for the reservation
Procedure
Use one or both of the following brsvadd command options to specify hosts that job slots are reserved for:
The -m option lists the hosts that are needed for the reservation. The hosts that are listed by the -m option can be local to the cluster or hosts
that are leased from remote clusters. At job submission, LSF considers the hosts in the speciﬁed order. If you also specify a resource
requirement string with the -R option, the -m flag is optional.
The -R option selects hosts for the reservation according to a resource requirements string. Only hosts that satisfy the resource requirement
expression are reserved. The -R option accepts any valid resource requirement string, but only the select and same strings take effect. If you
also specify a host list with the -m option, the -R flag is optional.
Resource requirements are checked before jobs are forwarded to the remote cluster. If the selection string is valid, the job is forwarded. The
strict resource requirement syntax check applies only to the select section. It does not apply to the other resource requirement sections
(order, rusage, same, span, or cu).
For more information about strict syntax for resource requirement selection strings, see Selection string.
Adding a one-time reservation
Procedure
Use the -b and -e options of the brsvadd command to specify the begin time and end time of a one-time advance reservation.
One-time reservations are useful for dedicating hosts to a speciﬁc user or group for critical projects. The day and time are in the following form:
[[[year:]month:]day:]hour:minute 
The begin and end times have the following ranges:
year
Any year after 1900 (YYYY).
month
1-12 (MM).
day of the month
1-31 (dd).
hour
0-23 (hh).
minute
0-59 (mm).
You must specify at least hour:minute. Year, month, and day are optional. Three ﬁelds are assumed to be day:hour:minute. Four ﬁelds are
assumed to be month:day:hour:minute. Five ﬁelds are year:month:day:hour:minute.
If you do not specify a day, LSF assumes the current day. If you do not specify a month, LSF assumes the current month. If you specify a year, you
must specify a month.
You must specify a begin and an end time. The time value for -b must use the same syntax as the time value for -e. The begin time must be earlier
than the time value for -e. The begin time cannot be earlier than the current time.
The following command creates a one-time advance reservation for 1024 job slots on host hostA for user user1 between 6:00 AM and 8:00 AM
today:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m hostA -u user1 -b 6:0 -e 8:0 
Reservation "user1#0" is created
The hosts that you specify with the -m option can be local to the cluster or hosts that are leased from remote clusters. The following command
creates a one-time advance reservation for 1024 job slots on a host of any type for user user1 between 6:00 AM and 8:00 AM today:
brsvadd -n 1024 -R "type==any" -u user1 -b 6:0 -e 8:0 
Reservation "user1#1" is created
742    IBM Spectrum LSF

The following command creates a one-time advance reservation that reserves 12 slots on hostA between 6:00 PM on 01 December 2013 and 6:00
AM on 31 January 2014:
brsvadd -n 12 -m hostA -u user1 -b 2013:12:01:18:00 -e 2014:01:31:06:00 
Reservation user1#2 is created
Adding a recurring reservation
Procedure
Use the -t option of the brsvadd command to specify a recurring advance reservation.
The -t option speciﬁes a time window for the reservation. Recurring reservations are useful for scheduling regular system maintenance jobs. The day
and time are in the following form:
[day:]hour[:minute] 
The day and time has the following ranges:
day of the week
0-23.
hour
0-6.
minute
0-59.
Specify a time window one of the following ways:
hour-hour
hour:minute-hour:minute
day:hour:minute-day:hour:minute
You must specify at least the hour. Days of the week and minute are optional. Both the start time and end time values must use the same syntax. If
you do not specify a minute, LSF assumes the ﬁrst minute of the hour (:00). If you do not specify a day, LSF assumes every day of the week. If you do
specify the day, you must also specify the minute.
If the current time when the reservation was created is within the time window of the reservation, the reservation becomes active immediately.
When the job starts running, the termination time of the advance reservation job is determined by the minimum of the job run limit (if speciﬁed), the
queue run limit (if speciﬁed), or the duration of the reservation time window.
The following command creates an advance reservation for 1024 job slots on two hosts hostA and hostB for user group groupA every Wednesday
from 12:00 midnight to 3:00 AM:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m "hostA hostB" -g groupA -t "3:0:0-3:3:0" 
Reservation "groupA#0" is created 
The following command creates an advance reservation for 1024 job slots on hostA for user user2 every weekday from 12:00 noon to 2:00 PM:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m "hostA" -u user2 -t "12:0-14:0" 
Reservation "user2#0" is created 
The following command creates a system reservation on hostA every Friday from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m hostA -s -t "5:18:0-5:20:0" 
Reservation "system#0" is created 
While the system reservation is active, no other jobs can use the reserved hosts, and LSF does not dispatch jobs to the speciﬁed hosts.
The following command creates an advance reservation for 1024 job slots on hosts hostA and hostB with more that 50 MB of swap space for user
user2 every weekday from 12:00 noon to 2:00 PM:
brsvadd -n 1024 -R "swp > 50" -m "hostA hostB" -u user2 -t "12:0-14:0" 
Reservation "user2#1" is created 
Adding an open reservation
Procedure
Use the -o option of the brsvadd command to create an open advance reservation. Specify the same information as for normal advance reservations.
The following command creates a one-time open advance reservation for 1024 job slots on a host of any type for user user1 between 6:00 AM and
8:00 AM today:
brsvadd -o -n 1024 -R "type==any" -u user1 -b 6:0 -e 8:0 
Reservation "user1#1" is created 
IBM Spectrum LSF 743

The following command creates an open advance reservation for 1024 job slots on hostB for user user3 every weekday from 12:00 noon to 2:00
PM:
brsvadd -o -n 1024 -m "hostB" -u user3 -t "12:0-14:0" 
Reservation "user2#0" is created 
Specifying a reservation name
Procedure
Use the -N option of the brsvadd command to specify a user-deﬁned advance reservation name unique in an LSF cluster.
The reservation name is a string of letters, numbers, underscores, and dashes. The name must begin with a letter. The maximum length of the name
is 39 characters.
If no user-deﬁned advance reservation name is speciﬁed, LSF creates the reservation with a system assigned name with the form
creator_name#sequence 
brsvadd -n 3 -M "hostA hostB" -u user2 -b 16:0 -e 17:0 -d "Production AR test" 
Reservation user2#0 (Production AR test) is created 
brsvadd -n 2 -N Production_AR -M hostA -u user2 -b 16:0 -e 17:0 -d "Production AR test" 
Reservation Production_AR (Production AR test) is created 
If a job exists that references a reservation with the speciﬁed name, an error message is returned: The speciﬁed reservation name is referenced by a
job.
Adding a reservation placeholder
Use a reservation placeholder to dynamically create and schedule an advance reservation in the same way as a job. Jobs that are scheduled for that
reservation run within when the reservation is active.
Procedure
1. Use the brsvadd -p command to create a reservation placeholder.
Note: You must use the –u to deﬁne a user name or user group that uses the reservation.
brsvadd -p -u user1 
Reservation user1#0 is created
2. Use the brsvsub command to create a schedulable advance reservation, and submit a job to the reservation.
The brsvsub command speciﬁes the properties of the reservation that is to be scheduled.
The following command ﬁlls placeholder reservation user1#19. The reservation has a duration of 10 minutes and allocates 2 hosts for user
user1.
brsvsub -D 10 -n 2 -unit host -u user1 
Placeholder reservation user1#19 is being scheduled by job <28> in the default queue <normal>. 
3. Submit a job to the scheduled advance reservation.
bsub -U user1#19 sleep 100 
Results
Use the brsvs command to query the scheduled reservation.
brsvs -l user1#19 
RSVID        TYPE      USER       NCPUS          RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
user1#19     user   haoqing       0/16       lsfrhel02:0/8    4/20/19/3-4/20/19/13 
                                             lsfrhel04:0/8 
Reservation Status: Active 
Description: job <28> 
Creator: user1 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
Resource Unit: Host 
Use the brsvjob command to see information about jobs submitted with the brsvsub command.
brsvjob user1#19 
Job <28>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Status <DONE>, Queue <normal>, Comm 
                     and <lsfrsv -N user1#19 -D 10 -n 2>, Share group charged 
                     </user1>, Job Description <user1#19> 
Tue Jun  6 21:47:58: Submitted from host <hostA>, CWD 
                      </scratch/dev/user1/lsf>, 2 Task(s); 
RUNLIMIT 
11.0 min of hostA 
744    IBM Spectrum LSF

Tue Jun  6 21:47:58: Started 2 Task(s) on Host(s) <hostA> 
                     <hostB>, Allocated 2 Slot(s) on Host(s)  
                     <hostA> <hostB>, Execution Home </home/user1>, Ex 
                     ecution CWD </scratch/dev/user1/lsf>; 
Tue Jun  6 21:47:58: Done successfully. The CPU time used is 0.1 seconds. 
SCHEDULING PARAMETERS: 
           r15s   r1m  r15m   ut      pg    io   ls    it    tmp    swp    mem 
loadSched   -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
loadStop    -     -     -     -       -     -    -     -     -      -      - 
RESOURCE REQUIREMENT DETAILS: 
Combined: select[type == local] order[r15s:pg] 
Effective: select[type == local] order[r15s:pg] 
Allowing non-reservation jobs to run on reservation hosts
By default, LSF does not allow a job to start and run on hosts that belong to any advance reservations if the job might still run when the advance
reservation becomes active. You can override this behavior by using the brsvadd -q option to allow jobs from the speciﬁed queue to be allowed to
run on these advance reservation hosts. LSF suspends these jobs when the ﬁrst advance reservation job starts unless you also use the brsvadd -
nosusp option.
Procedure
1. Use the -q option of the brsvadd command to specify queues whose jobs can start on advance reservation hosts before the advance
reservation is active.
brsvadd -q queue_name
brsvadd -q "queue_name …"
When you specify multiple queues, use a space to separate multiple queues and quotation marks to enclose the list.
brsvadd -N AR1 -n 1 -unit host -m hostA -u user1 -q normal -b 14:00 -e 16:00 
Reservation AR1 is created
Jobs that are submitted to the normal queue are able to start on the hostA host until the advance reservation becomes active at 2:00 PM.
If you specify a pre-time for the advance reservation (-Et option), LSF stops dispatching jobs from the speciﬁed queue when the pre-time is
reached, otherwise, LSF stops dispatching jobs from the speciﬁed queue when the advance reservation becomes active.
2. Use the -nosusp option of the brsvadd command to enable non-advance reservation jobs to continue running on advance reservation hosts
when the ﬁrst advance reservation job starts.
These jobs are not suspended when the advance reservation is active, and advance reservation jobs do not start until the required resources
are available.
The -nosusp option is only available for user advance reservations. System advance reservations are not supported.
brsvadd -N AR2 -n 1 -unit host -m hostB -u user1 -q nosuspend -nosusp -b 14:00 -e 16:00 
Reservation AR2 is created
Jobs that are submitted to the nosuspend queue are able to start on the hostB host until the advance reservation becomes active at 2:00
PM. In addition, these jobs are not suspended if they are still running when the ﬁrst advance reservation job starts after 2:00 PM.
What to do next
Use the brsvs -l command to see which queues can use the advance reservation hosts before the advance reservation is active.
brsvs –l 
RSVID        TYPE      USER       NCPUS          RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
AR1          user     user1       0/8            hostA:0/8     14-16 
Reservation Status: Active 
Creator: user2 
Queues that can use AR hosts before AR starts: normal 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
Resource Unit: Host 
RSVID        TYPE      USER       NCPUS          RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
AR2          user     user1       0/8            hostB:0/8     14-16 
Reservation Status: Active 
Creator: user1 
Queues that can use AR hosts before AR starts: nosuspend 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
Resource Unit: Host 
Start action: Allow non-AR jobs to continue running
Specifying scripts to run at the start or end of the reservation
Specify scripts to run at the start of an advance reservation (pre-script), or when the advance reservation expires (post-script).
IBM Spectrum LSF 745

Before you begin
To specify scripts to run with an advance reservation, you must ﬁrst specify LSB_START_EBROKERD=Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Procedure
1. Use the -E option of the brsvadd command to specify the absolute ﬁle path to a script that is run to create the advance reservation (the pre-
script).
If the creator is not root or an LSF administrator, the creator's user group must be an an LSF or queue administrator so that this pre-script can
act on other users' jobs. The ﬁle path can contain up to 4094 characters for UNIX and Linux, or up to 255 characters for Windows, including
the directory and ﬁle name.
The following environment variables are available for use in the script:
AR_NAME
Name of the advance reservation.
AR_QUEUE_LIST
List of queues whose jobs can be run in this advance reservation.
AR_HOST_LIST
List of hosts in this advance reservation. The host is reported even if the advance reservation does not use all slots on the host.
AR_START_TIME
Start time of this advance reservation in epoch seconds.
AR_END_TIME
End time of this advance reservation in epoch seconds.
AR_JOBIDS
The job IDs of jobs that are currently running on this advance reservation's hosts.
AR_CREATOR
Name of the user that created this advance reservation.
AR_OWNERS
Name of the owners of this advance reservation.
The script is run at the start time of the advance reservation unless a pre-time is set with the -Et option, then the script is run at the start time
minus the speciﬁed pre-time. If the script is modiﬁed before the script is to be run, the latest version of the script is run at the start time of the
script.
LSF does not take any speciﬁc action based on the success or failure of the script, and there is no timeout period or action that is associated
with this script.
2. Use the -Et option of the brsvadd command to specify the amount of time, in minutes, before the start of the advance reservation for LSF to
run this script and to stop dispatching new jobs to the advance reservation hosts.
If this option is speciﬁed without the -E option, LSF stops dispatching jobs to this advance reservation's hosts at the speciﬁed time without
running a pre-script.
3. Use the -Ep option of the brsvadd command to specify the absolute ﬁle path to a script that is run as the creator of the advance reservation
when the advance reservation expires (the post-script).
If the creator is not root or an LSF administrator, the creator's user group must be an an LSF or queue administrator so that this post-script can
act on other users' jobs. The ﬁle path can contain up to 4094 characters for UNIX and Linux, or up to 255 characters for Windows, including
the directory and ﬁle name.
The environment variables that are available for use in the post-script are the same as the ones that are available for the pre-script (-E option).
The script is run at the expiry time of the advance reservation unless a post-script time is set with the -Ept option, then the script is run at the
expiry time minus the speciﬁed post-script time. If the script is modiﬁed before the script is to be run, the latest version of the script is run at
the start time of the script.
LSF does not take any speciﬁc action based on the success or failure of the script, and there is no timeout period or action that is associated
with this script.
4. Use the -Ept option of the brsvadd command to specify the amount of time, in minutes, before the expiry of the advance reservation for LSF to
run this script.
This option is ignored if it is speciﬁed without the -Ep option.
Example
For example, to create an advance reservation that uses a pre-script that starts 5 minutes before the advance reservation starts, and a post-script
that starts 10 minutes before the advance reservation ends:
brsvadd -N AR1 -n 1 -unit host -m hostA -u user1 -E /home/user1/pre.sh -Et 5 -Ep /home/user1/post.sh -Ept 10 –q 
normal –nosusp -b 9:00 -e 17:00 
Reservation AR1 is created
What to do next
Use the brsvs -l command to show the pre-script, pre-time, post-script, and post-script time settings.
746    IBM Spectrum LSF

brsvs –l 
RSVID        TYPE      USER       NCPUS          RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
AR1          user     user1       0/8            hostA:0/8     9-17 
Reservation Status: Active 
Creator: user1 
Queues that can use AR hosts before AR starts: normal 
Pre-AR Script: /home/user1/pre.sh 
Pre-AR Time: 5 minutes before AR becomes active 
Post-AR Script: /home/user1/post.sh 
Post-AR Time: 10 minutes before AR end time 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
Resource Unit: Host 
Start action: Allow non-AR jobs to continue running
Changing an advance reservation
Use the brsvmod command to change an existing advance reservation.
Specify the reservation ID for the reservation you want to modify. For example, run the following command to extend the duration from 6:00 AM. to
9:00 AM.
brsvmod -e "+60" user1#0 
Reservation "user1#0" is modified 
Note: Administrators and root can modify any reservations. Users listed in the ResourceReservation section of the lsb.resources ﬁle, can modify
only reservations they created themselves.
Take the following actions on a reservation:
Modify start time (postpone or move closer)
Modify the duration of the reservation window (and thus the end time)
Modify the slot numbers required by the reservation (add or remove slots with hosts)
Modify the host or host group list (add or remove hosts or host groups)
Replace the user or user group list or add or remove users or user groups
Add hosts by resource requirement (-R)
Modify the reservation type (open or closed)
Disable the speciﬁed occurrences of a recurring reservation
Modify the queue whose jobs are allowed to run on the advance reservation hosts before the advance reservation becomes active
Modify whether LSF suspends non-advance reservation jobs that are running when the advance reservation becomes active
Modify pre-scripts, post-scripts, and script start times.
For example, assume an advance reservation is the box between the time t1 and t2, as shown in the following ﬁgure:
The shadowed box shows the original reservation
Time means the time window of the reservation
t1 is the begin time of the reservation
t2 is the end time of the reservation
The reservation size means the resources that are reserved, such as hosts (slots) or host groups
Use the brsvmod command to shift, extend, or reduce the time window horizontally, and to grow or shrink the size vertically.
Extend the duration
The following command creates a one-time advance reservation for 1024 job slots on host hostA for user user1 between 6:00 AM and 8:00 AM
today:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m hostA -u user1 -b "6:0" -e "8:0" 
Reservation "user1#0" is created 
Run the following command to extend the duration from 6:00 AM to 9:00 AM:
brsvmod -e "+60" user1#0 
Reservation "user1#0" is modified 
IBM Spectrum LSF 747

Add hosts to a reservation allocation
Use the brsvmod command to add hosts and slots on hosts into the original advance reservation allocation. The hosts can be local to the cluster or
hosts leased from remote clusters.
Slots cannot be added (-n option) to a system reservation. Only hosts can be added (-m option) to a system reservation.
Adding a host without the -n option reserves all available hosts or slots on the host that are not already reserved by other reservations. You can
specify the number of slots to be added from the host list speciﬁed with the -n option, but the -n option cannot be used alone. The -m option can be
used alone if no host group is speciﬁed in the list. You must specify the -R option together with the -n option.
The speciﬁed number of units (slots or hosts) must be less than or equal to the available number of slots for the hosts or hosts themselves.
The following examples reserve slots from a reservation with the brsvmod addhost command:
Reserve 2 more slots from hostA:
brsvmod addhost -n2 -m "hostA"
Reserve 4 slots in total from hostA and hostB:
brsvmod addhost -n4 -m "hostA hostB"
Reserve 4 more slots from any Linux hosts:
brsvmod addhost -n4 -R"type==linux"
Reserve 4 more slots from any Linux hosts in the host group :hostgroup1
brsvmod addhost -n4 -m "hostgroup1" -R "type==linux"
Dynamically add any Linux hosts in the hostgroup1 host group:
brsvmod addhost -f -m "hostgroup1" -R "type==linux"
Reserve all available slots from hostA and hostB:
brsvmod addhost -m "hostA hostB"
The following command creates an advance reservation for 1024 slots on two hosts hostA and hostB for user group groupA every Wednesday from
12:00 midnight to 3:00 AM:
brsvadd -n 1024 -m "hostA hostB" -g groupA -t "3:0:0-3:3:0" 
Reservation "groupA#0" is created
brsvs 
RSVID      TYPE    USER     NCPUS      RSV_HOSTS       TIME_WINDOW 
groupA#0   user    groupA   0/1024     hostA:0/256     3:3:0-3:3:0 * 
                                       hostB:0/768
The following commands reserve 256 slots from each host for the reservation:
brsvmod addhost -n 256 -m "hostA" groupA#0 
Reservation "groupA#0" is modified  
brsvmod rmhost -n 256 -m "hostB" groupA#0 
Reservation "groupA#0" is modified
Remove hosts from a reservation allocation
Use the brsvmod rmhost command to remove hosts or slots on hosts from the original reservation allocation. You must specify either the -n or -m
option. Use the -n option to specify the number of slots to be released from the host. Removing a host without the -n option releases all reserved
slots on the host. The slot speciﬁcation must be less than or equal to the actual reserved slot number of the host.
The following examples remove slots from reservations with the brsvmod rmhost command:
Remove 4 reserved slots from hostA
brsvmod rmhost -n 4 -m "hostA"
Remove 4 slots in total from hostA and hostB.
brsvmod rmhost -n 4 -m "hostA hostB" 
Release reserved hostA and hostB
brsvmod rmhost -m "hostA hostB" 
Remove 4 slots from current reservation allocation.
brsvmod rmhost -n 4 
748    IBM Spectrum LSF

You cannot remove slots from a system reservation. The following modiﬁcation to the system reservation System#1 is rejected:
brsvmod rmhost -n 2 -m "hostA"  system#1
The number of slots or hosts that can be removed also depends on the number of slots that are free while the reservation is active. The brsvmod
rmhost command cannot remove more slots than are free on a host. For example:
brsvs 
RSVID    TYPE USER    NCPUS         RSV_HOSTS    TIME_WINDOW 
user1_1  user  user1  3/4           hostA:2/2    1/24/12/2-1/24/13/0 
                                    hostB:1/2
The following modiﬁcations are accepted because hostB has free slots:
brsvmod rmhost -m hostB user1_1 
brsvmod rmhost -n 1 -m hostB user1_1
The following modiﬁcations are rejected because no free slots are available to be removed from hostA:
brsvmod rmhost -n 2 user1_1 # <<-- only 1 slot is free 
brsvmod rmhost -m hostA user1_1        # <<-- hostA has no free slots 
brsvmod rmhost -n 1 -m hostA user1_1   # <<-- hostA has no free slots 
brsvmod rmhost -n 2 -m hostB user1_1   # <<-- hostB only has 1 free slot
Modify closed reservations
The following command creates an open advance reservation for 1024 job slots on host hostA for user user1 between 6:00 AM and 8:00 AM today.
brsvadd -o -n 1024 -m hostA -u user1 -b 6:0 -e 8:0  
Reservation "user1#0" is created 
Run the following command to close the reservation when it expires.
brsvmod -on user1#0 
Reservation "user1#0" is modified 
Modify a reservation placeholder
To add a time window to a reservation placeholder, use the brsvmod -b begin_time -e end_time reservation_ID command.
brsvmod -b 23:30 -e 23:40 user1#0 
Reservation user1#0 is modified
By default, a placeholder reservation is a one-time reservation. You can’t change a placeholder to a recurring reservation.
A placeholder reservation with a time window is cleaned when the reservation expires.
To add resources to a placeholder, use the brsvmod addhost command.
brsvmod addhost -m lsfrhel04 -n 2 user1#0 
Reservation user1#0 is modified
Disable speciﬁed occurrences for recurring reservations
Use the brsvmod disable command to disable speciﬁed periods, or instances, of a recurring advance reservation.
Recurring reservations may repeat either on a daily cycle or a weekly cycle. For daily reservations, the instances of the reservation that occur on
disabled days will be inactive. Jobs using the reservation are not dispatched on those disabled days. Other reservations are permitted to use slots of
the reservation on those days. For overnight reservations (active from 11:00 PM to 9:00 AM daily), if the reservation is disabled on the starting day of
an instance, the reservation is disabled for the whole of that instance.
For a weekly reservation, if the reservation is disabled on the start date of an instance of the reservation then the reservation is disabled for the
entire instance. For example, for a weekly reservation with time window from 9 AM Wednesday to 10 PM Friday, in one particular week, the
reservation is disabled on Thursday, then the instance of the reservation remains active for that week. However, if the same reservation is disabled
for the Wednesday of the week, then the reservation is disabled for the week.
The following ﬁgure illustrates how the disable options apply to the weekly occurrences of a recurring advance reservation.
IBM Spectrum LSF 749

Once a reservation is disabled for a period, it cannot be enabled again; that is, the disabled periods remain ﬁxed. Before a reservation is disabled, you
are prompted to conﬁrm whether to continue disabling the reservation. Use the -f option to silently force the command to run without prompting for
conﬁrmation, for example, to allow for automating disabling reservations from a script.
For example, the following command creates a recurring advance reservation for 4 slots on host hostA for user user1 between 6:00 AM and 8:00
AM every day.
Reservation "user1#0" is created  
brsvadd -n 4 -m hostA -u user1 -t "6:0-8:0" 
Run the following command to disable the reservation instance that is active between Dec 1 to Dec 10, 2007.
brsvmod -disable -td "2007:12:1-2007:12:10" user1#0 
Reservation "user1#0" is modified 
Then the administrator can use host hostA for other reservations during the duration
brsvadd -n 4 -m hostA -u user1 -b "2007:12:1:6:0" -e "2007:12:1:8:0"  
Reservation "user1#2" is created 
Change users and user groups
Use the brsvmod -u, brsvmod adduser, or brsvmod rmuser command to change the users or user groups that are able to submit jobs with the
advance reservation.
Jobs that are submitted by the original user or user group to the reservation still belong to the reservation and are scheduled as advance reservation
jobs, but new submitted jobs from the removed user or user group cannot use the reservation any longer.
brun command
An advance reservation job dispatched with the brun command is still subject to run windows and suspending conditions of the advance reservation
for the job. The job must ﬁnish running before the time window of a closed reservation expires. Extending or shrinking a closed advance reservation
duration prolongs or shortens lifetime of a brun job.
bslots command
The bslots command displays a snapshot of the slots currently not in use by parallel jobs or advance reservations. If the hosts or duration of an
advance reservation is modiﬁed, the bslots command recalculates and displays the available slots and available run time accordingly.
How advance reservation modiﬁcations interact
The following table summarizes how advance reservation modiﬁcation applies to various advance reservation instances.
Modiﬁcati
on   Disabl
eBegin
timeEnd
timeAdd
hostsRemove
hostsUser/usergro
upopen/clos
edPre
commandPost
command
One-time Active   No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Inactive   No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Recurring OccurrencesAll No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Speciﬁe
dYes No No No No No No No No
Active
instance  No No No No No No No No No
In this table, Yes means that the modiﬁcation is supported. No means that the change is not allowed. For example, all modiﬁcations are acceptable in
the case that the advance reservation is inactive and not disabled.
Removing an advance reservation
750    IBM Spectrum LSF

Use the brsvdel command to delete reservations.
Procedure
Specify the reservation ID for the reservation you want to delete.
For example:
brsvdel user1#0Reservation user1#0 is being deleted 
You can delete more than one reservation at a time. Administrators can delete any reservation, but users may only delete their own reservations.
If the recurring reservation is deleted with the brsvdel command, jobs running in the reservation are detached from the reservation and scheduled
as normal jobs.
If an active reservation is removed with the brsvdel command, any speciﬁed post-scripts (-Ep option) are not run.
Viewing advance reservation information
Use the brsvs command to view information about advance reservations. You can see all current reservations, show a weekly planner for your
reservations, or see reservation types and their associated jobs. Use the bjobs command to see the reservation ID for an advance reservation job.
Use the bacct command to view historical accounting information for advance reservations.
Procedure
Use the brsvs command with no options to show current reservations.
brsvs 
RSVID       TYPE    USER   NCPUS      RSV_HOSTS           TIME_WINDOW  
user1#0     user    user1   0/1024    hostA:0/1024   11/12/6/0-11/12/8/0  
user2#0     user    user2  0/1024     hostA:0/1024           12:0-14:0 *  
groupA#0   group   groupA  -/2048     hostA:-/1024         3:0:0-3:3:0 *  
                                      hostB:0/1024  
system#0     sys   system   1024      hostA:0/1024       5:18:0-5:20:0 * 
The TIME_WINDOW column shows the following information:
A one-time reservation displays ﬁelds that are separated by slashes (month/day/hour/minute):
11/12/14/0-11/12/18/0 
A recurring reservation displays ﬁelds that are separated by colons (day:hour:minute). An asterisk (*) indicates a recurring reservation:
5:18:0-5:20:0 * 
The NCPUS and RSV_HOSTS columns show remote reservations but do not display details:
-/2048    hostA:-/1024 
Showing a weekly planner for advance reservations
Use the brsvs -p and brsvs -z commands to show a weekly planner for speciﬁed hosts using advance reservation.
Procedure
1. Use the all keyword to show the planner for all hosts with reservations.
The output of the brsvs -p command is displayed in weeks. The week starts on Sunday. The timeframe of a recurring reservation is not
displayed, since it is unlimited. The timeframe of one-time reservation is displayed in terms of a week. If the reservation spans multiple
weeks, these weeks are displayed separately. If a week contains a one-time reservation and a recurring reservation, the timeframe is
displayed, since that is relevant for one-time reservation.
Tip: The MAX ﬁeld indicates the conﬁgured maximum number of job slots for the host (the MXJ parameter that is deﬁned in the lsb.hosts ﬁle).
brsvs -p all 
RSVID       TYPE    USER   NCPUS      RSV_HOSTS           TIME_WINDOW  
user1#0     user    user1  0/1024     hostA:0/1024   11/12/6/0-11/12/8/0  
user2#0     user    user2  0/1024     hostA:0/1024           12:0-14:0 *  
groupA#0   group   groupA  0/2048     hostA:0/1024         3:0:0-3:3:0 *  
                                      hostB:0/1024  
system#0     sys   system   1024      hostA:0/1024       5:18:0-5:20:0 *  
HOST: hostA  (MAX = 1024)  
Week: 11/11/2009 - 11/17/2009  
Hour:Min     Sun     Mon     Tue     Wed     Thu     Fri     Sat  
0:0          0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
IBM Spectrum LSF 751

0:10         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
0:20         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
...  
2:30         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
2:40         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
2:50         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
3:0          0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
3:10         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
3:20         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
...  
5:30         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
5:40         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
5:50         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
6:0          0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
6:10         0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
6:20         0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
...  
7:30         0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
7:40         0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
7:50         0       1024    0       0       0       0       0  
8:0          0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
8:10         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
8:20         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
...  
11:30        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
11:40        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
11:50        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
12:0         1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
12:10        1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
12:20        1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
...  
13:30        1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
13:40        1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
13:50        1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024    1024  
14:0         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
14:10        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
14:20        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
...  
17:30        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
17:40        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
17:50        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
18:0         0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
18:10        0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
18:20        0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
...  
19:30        0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
19:40        0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
19:50        0       0       0       0       0       1024    0  
20:0         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
20:10        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
20:20        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
...  
23:30        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
23:40        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
23:50        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
HOST: hostB  (MAX = 1024)  
Week: 11/11/2009 - 11/17/2009  
Hour:Min     Sun     Mon     Tue     Wed     Thu     Fri     Sat  
-------------------------------------------------------------------  
0:0          0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
0:10         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
0:20         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
...  
2:30         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
2:40         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
2:50         0       0       0       1024    0       0       0  
3:0          0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
3:10         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
3:20         0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
...  
23:30        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
23:40        0       0       0       0       0       0       0  
23:50        0       0       0       0       0       0       0 
2. Use the brsvs -z command instead of the brsvs -p command to show only the weekly items that have reservation conﬁgurations. Lines that
show all zero are omitted.
brsvs -z all 
RSVID        TYPE      USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
user1_1      user      user1     0/3       hostA:0/2       12/28/14/30-12/28/15/30 
                                           hostB:0/1 
HOST: hostA (MAX = 2) 
Week: 12/23/2007 - 12/29/2007 
Hour:Min        Sun     Mon     Tue     Wed     Thu     Fri     Sat 
752    IBM Spectrum LSF

---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
14:30           0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
14:40           0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
14:50           0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
15:0            0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
15:10           0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
15:20           0       0       0       0       0       1       0 
HOST: hostB (MAX = 2) 
Week: 12/23/2007 - 12/29/2007 
Hour:Min        Sun     Mon     Tue     Wed     Thu     Fri     Sat 
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
14:30           0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
14:40           0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
14:50           0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
15:0            0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
15:10           0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
15:20           0       0       0       0       0       2       0 
Showing reservation types and associated jobs
The brsvs -l command shows each advance reservation in long format.
Procedure
Use the -l option of the brsvs command to show each advance reservation in long format.
The rows that follow the reservation information show the
The status of the reservation
Time when the next instance of recurring reservation is active
Type of reservation (open or closed)
The status by job ID of any job associated with the speciﬁed reservation (FINISHED, PEND, RUN, or SUSP)
brsvs -l 
RSVID        TYPE      USER       NCPUS          RSV_HOSTS     TIME_WINDOW 
user1_1#0    user    user1_1      10/10          host1:4/4    8:00-22:00 *       
                                                 host2:4/4 
                                                 host3:2/2 
Reservation Status: Active 
Next Active Period: 
        Sat Aug 22 08:00:00 2009 - Sat Aug 22 22:00:00 2009 
Creator: user1_1 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
FINISHED Jobs: 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 
PEND Jobs: 323 324 
RUN  Jobs: 313 314 316 318 319 320 321 322 
SUSP Jobs: 315 317 
Resource Unit: Host 
Specify a reservation name to see information about a single reservation:
brsvs -l user1_1#0 
RSVID      TYPE  USER   NCPUS  RSV_HOSTS      TIME_WINDOW 
user1_1#0  user  user1  0/2    lsfrhel04:0/2  4/13/23/30-4/13/23/40 
Reservation Status: Inactive 
Creator: user1 
Reservation Type: CLOSED 
Resource Unit: Slot 
Showing the reservation ID for an advance reservation job
The bjobs -l command shows the reservation ID used by a job.
Procedure
Use the bjobs -l command.
bjobs -l 
Job <1152>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Status <PEND>, Queue <normal>,   
Reservation <user1#0>, Command <covfefe> 
Mon Nov 12 5:13:21 2009: Submitted from host <hostB>, CWD </home/user1/jobs>; 
... 
Viewing historical accounting information for advance reservations
The bacct -U command shows historical accounting information about advance reservations.
Procedure
IBM Spectrum LSF 753

Use the -U option of the bacct command.
The bacct -U command summarizes all historical modiﬁcation of the reservation and displays information similar to the brsvs command:
The reservation ID speciﬁed on the -U option.
The type of reservation (user or system)
The user names of users who used the brsvadd command to create the advance reservations
The user names of the users who can use the advance reservations for jobs that are submitted with the bsub -U option.
Number of slots reserved
List of hosts for which job slots are reserved
Time window for the reservation.
A one-time reservation displays ﬁelds that are separated by slashes (month/day/hour/minute).
11/12/14/0-11/12/18/0 
A recurring reservation displays ﬁelds that are separated by colons (day:hour:minute).
5:18:0 5:20:0 
For example, the following advance reservation has four time modiﬁcations during its life time. The original reservation has the scope of one user
(user1) and one host (hostA) with one slot. The various modiﬁcations change the user to user2, then back to user1, adds, then removes one slot
from the reservation.
bacct -U user1#1 
Accounting about advance reservations that are: 
  - accounted on advance reservation IDs user1#1, 
  - accounted on advance reservations created by user1, 
---------------------------- SUMMARY ---------------------------- 
RSVID:                         user1#1 
TYPE:                          user 
CREATOR:                       user1 
Total number of jobs:          0 
Total CPU time consumed:       0.0 second 
Maximum memory of a job:       0.0 MB 
Maximum swap of a job:         0.0 MB 
Total active time:             0 hour  6 minute 42 second 
Resource Unit:                 Host 
------------------------ Configuration 0 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#1      user        user1  user1       1          hostA:1 
Active time with this configuration:  0 hour  0 minute 16 second 
------------------------ Configuration 1 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#1      user        user1  user2        1         hostA:1 
Active time with this configuration:  0 hour  0 minute 24 second 
------------------------ Configuration 2 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#1      user        user1  user2        1         hostA:1 
Active time with this configuration:  0 hour  1 minute 58 second 
------------------------ Configuration 3 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#1      user        user1  user1        2         hostA:2 
Active time with this configuration:  0 hour  1 minute 34 second 
------------------------ Configuration 4 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#1      user        user1  user1        1         hostA:2 
Active time with this configuration:  0 hour  2 minute 30 second 
The following reservation (user2#0) has one time modiﬁcation during its life time. The original one has the scope of one user (user2) and one host
(hostA) with one slot; the modiﬁcation changes the user to user3.
bacct -U user2#0 
Accounting about advance reservations that are: 
  - accounted on all advance reservation IDs: 
  - accounted on advance reservations created by all users: 
--------------------------- SUMMARY ------------------------- 
RSVID:                         user2#0 
TYPE:                          user 
CREATOR:                       user2 
Total number of jobs:          1 
Total CPU time consumed:       5.0 second 
Maximum memory of a job:       1.7 MB 
Maximum swap of a job:         7.5 MB 
Total active time:             2 hour    0 minute    0 second 
------------------------ Configuration 0 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#0      user      user2     user2       1       hostA:1 
Active time with this configuration:  1 hour  0 minute  0 second 
------------------------ Configuration 1 ------------------------ 
RSVID        TYPE      CREATOR   USER    NCPUS       RSV_HOSTS 
user1#0      user      user2     user3       1       hostA:1 
Active time with this configuration:  1 hour  0 minute  0 second 
754    IBM Spectrum LSF

Submitting and modifying jobs that use advance reservations
The -U option of the bsub command submits jobs with a reservation ID.
Procedure
Use the -U option of the bsub command to submit jobs with a reservation ID.
bsub -U user1#0 myjob
The job can use only hosts that are reserved by the reservation user1#0. By default, LSF selects only the hosts in the reservation. Use the -m option
to specify particular hosts within the list of hosts that are reserved by the reservation. You can select only from hosts that were included in the
original reservation.
If you do not specify hosts (the bsub -m command) or resource requirements (the bsub -R command), the default resource requirement selects the
hosts that are of any host type (assumes "type==any" instead of "type==local" as the default select string).
If you later delete the advance reservation while it is still active, any pending jobs still keep the "type==any" attribute.
A job can use only one reservation. The number of jobs that can be submitted to a reservation is not limited, but the reservation might run out of slots
available on the hosts in the reservation. For example, reservation user2#0 reserves 1024 slots on hostA. When all 1024 slots on hostA are used
by jobs the reference user2#0, hostA is no longer available to other jobs that use reservation user2#0. Any single user or user group can have a
maximum of 100 reservation IDs.
Jobs referencing the reservation are killed when the reservation expires.
Modifying a job reservation ID
The -U option of the bmod command changes a job to another reservation ID.
Before you begin
You must be an administrator to modify a job reservation ID.
Procedure
1. Use the -U option of the bmod command to change a job to another reservation ID.
bmod -U user1#0 1234 
2. To cancel the reservation, use the -Un option of the bmod command.
bmod -Un 1234 
Use the bmod -Un option to detach a running job from an inactive open reservation. After the job is detached from the reservation, it is
scheduled like a normal job.
Viewing jobs that are associated with an advance reservation
Procedure
To view all jobs that are associated with a particular reservation ID, use the bjobs -U option with 0 as the job ID.
For example, to display all jobs that are associated with the reservation ID user1#2:
bjobs -U user1#2 0
To see if a single job is associated with a particular reservation ID, use the bjobs -U option with a speciﬁc job ID.
For example, to display one job with ID 101 if it is associated with the reservation ID user1#2:
bjobs -U user1#2 101
To see which jobs in a speciﬁed list are associated with a particular reservation ID, use the bjobs -U and -l options with multiple job IDs.
Displays any jobs from a speciﬁed list (with IDs 101, 102, 103, and 104) that are associated with the reservation ID user1#2:
bjobs -U user1#2 -l 101 102 103 104
Viewing the reservation ID for a job
IBM Spectrum LSF 755

Procedure
Use the -o option of the bjobs command and include the rsvid column to view the reservation ID for the speciﬁed jobs.
For more information on customizing job information with the bjobs -o option, see Customize job information output.
Advance reservation behavior and operations
A job that uses a reservation is subject to all job resource usage limits. Advance reservation preemption allows advance reservation jobs to use the
slots that are reserved by the reservation. You can create and use advance reservations for the LSF multicluster capability job forwarding model.
Resizable jobs and jobs with compute unit resource requirements can be dispatched only after the advance reservation becomes active.
Job resource usage limits
A job that uses a reservation is subject to all job resource usage limits. If a limit is reached on a particular host in a reservation, jobs that use that
reservation cannot start on that host.
An advance reservation job is dispatched to its reservation even if the run limit or estimated run time of the job exceeds the remaining active time of
the reservation. For example, if a job has a run limit of 1 hour, and a reservation has a remaining active time of 1 minute, the job is still dispatched to
the reservation. If the reservation is closed, the job is terminated when the reservation expires.
Advance reservation preemption
Advance reservation preemption allows advance reservation jobs to use the slots that are reserved by the reservation. Slots that are occupied by
non-advance jobs might be preempted when the reservation becomes active.
Without modiﬁcation with brsvmod, advance reservation preemption is triggered at most once per reservation period (a non-recurring reservation
has only one period) whenever both of the following conditions are met:
The reservation is active.
At least one job associated with the advance reservation is pending or suspended.
If an advance reservation is modiﬁed, preemption is done for an active advance reservation after every modiﬁcation of the reservation when there is
at least one pending or suspended job that is associated with the reservation.
When slots are added to an advance reservation with brsvmod, LSF preempts running non-reservation jobs if necessary to provide slots for jobs that
belong to the reservation. Preemption is triggered if pending or suspended jobs belong to the reservation in the system.
When preemption is triggered, non-advance reservation jobs are suspended and their slots that are given to the advance reservation on the hosts
that belong to the reservation. On each host, enough non-advance reservation jobs are suspended so that all of slots required by the advance
reservation are obtained. The number of slots obtained does not depend on the number of jobs submitted to the advance reservation. Non-advance
reservation jobs on a host can only to use slots not assigned to the advance reservation.
When a job is preempted for an advance reservation, it can only resume on the host when either the advance reservation ﬁnishes, or some other non-
advance reservation job ﬁnishes on the host.
For example, a single-host cluster has 10 slots, with 9 non-advance reservation jobs dispatched to the host (each requiring one slot). An advance
reservation that uses 5 slots on the host is created, and a single job is submitted to the reservation. When the reservation becomes active, 4 of the
non-advance reservation jobs are suspended, and the advance reservation job will start.
Force a job to run before a reservation is active
LSF administrators can use brun to force jobs to run before the reservation is active, but the job must ﬁnish running before the time window of the
reservation expires.
For example, if the administrator forces a job with a reservation to run one hour before the reservation is active, and the reservation period is 3 hours,
a 4 hour run limit takes effect.
Host intersection and advance reservation
When the ENABLE_HOST_INTERSECTION=Y parameter is speciﬁed in the lsb.params ﬁle, LSF ﬁnds any existing intersection with hosts speciﬁed in
the queue and those speciﬁed at job submission by bsub -m and/or hosts with advance reservation. When specifying keywords such as all,
allremote, and others, LSF ﬁnds an existing intersection of hosts available and the job runs rather than being rejected.
Advance reservations across clusters
You can create and use advance reservation for the LSF multicluster capability job forwarding model. To enable this feature, you must upgrade all
clusters to LSF 10 or later.
756    IBM Spectrum LSF

See IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability for more information.
Resizable jobs and advance reservations
Like regular jobs, resizable jobs associated with an advance reservation can be dispatched only after the reservation becomes active, and the
minimum processor request can be satisﬁed. The allocation request is treated like a regular advance reservation job, which relies on slots available
to the reservation. If an advance reservation gets more resources by modiﬁcation (brsvmod addhost), those resources can be used by pending
allocation requests immediately.
The following table summarizes the relationship of the advance reservation lifecycle and resizable job requests:
Advance Reservation Resizable job Allocation request
One-time expired/deletedOpen RUN->SSUSP->RUN Postponed until the job runs
Closed Removed Removed
Recurrent expired/deletedOpen SSUSP till next instancePostponed until the job runs again in next instance
Closed Removed Removed
By the time a reservation has expired or deleted, the status change of the resizable job to SSUSP blocks a resizable job allocation request from being
scheduled.
Released slots from a resizable job can be reused by other jobs in the reservation.
Resizable advance reservation jobs can preempt non-advance reservation jobs that are consuming the slots that belong to the reservation. Higher
priority advance reservation jobs can preempt low priority advance reservation jobs, regardless of whether both are resizable jobs.
Allocation requests of resizable AR jobs honor limits conﬁguration. They cannot preempt any limit tokens from other jobs.
Compute units and advance reservations
Like regular jobs, jobs with compute unit resource requirements and an advance reservation can be dispatched only after the reservation becomes
active, and the minimum processor request can be satisﬁed.
In the case of exclusive compute unit jobs (with the resource requirement cu[excl]), the advance reservation can affect hosts outside the advance
reservation but in the same compute unit as follows:
An exclusive compute unit job dispatched to a host inside the advance reservation will lock the entire compute unit, including any hosts
outside the advance reservation.
An exclusive compute unit job dispatched to a host outside the advance reservation will lock the entire compute unit, including any hosts
inside the advance reservation.
Ideally, all hosts belonging to a compute unit should be inside or outside of an advance reservation.
Fair share scheduling
fair share scheduling divides the processing power of the LSF cluster among users and queues to provide fair access to resources, so that no user or
queue can monopolize the resources of the cluster and no queue will be starved.
To conﬁgure any kind of fair share scheduling, you should understand the following concepts:
User share assignments
Dynamic share priority
Job dispatch order
You can conﬁgure fair share at either host level or queue level. If you require more control, you can implement hierarchical fair share. You can also
set some additional restrictions when you submit a job.
Note: If you enable the RELAX_JOB_DISPATCH_ORDER parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle, which allows LSF to deviate from standard job prioritization
policies, LSF might break the job dispatch order as speciﬁed by the fair share policy.
Fair share scheduling
 By default, LSF considers jobs for dispatch in the same order as they appear in the queue (which is not necessarily the order in which they are
submitted to the queue). This is called ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served (FCFS) scheduling.
Ways to conﬁgure fair share
 User-based fair share
 User-based fair share lets you allocate resources to users in a hierarchical manner.
Use time decay and committed run time
 By default, as a job is running, the dynamic priority decreases gradually until the job has ﬁnished running, then increases immediately when
the job ﬁnishes.
IBM Spectrum LSF 757

How fair share affects job dispatch order
Within a queue, jobs are dispatched according to the queue’s scheduling policy.
Host partition user-based fair share
User-based fair share policies that are conﬁgured at the host level handle resource contention across multiple queues. You can deﬁne a
different fair share policy for every host partition. If multiple queues use the host partition, a user has the same priority across multiple
queues.
Queue-level user-based fair share
User-based fair share policies conﬁgured at the queue level handle resource contention among users in the same queue. You can deﬁne a
different fair share policy for every queue, even if they share the same hosts. A user’s priority is calculated separately for each queue.
Queue-based fair share
When a priority is set in a queue conﬁguration, a high priority queue tries to dispatch as many jobs as it can before allowing lower priority
queues to dispatch any job. Lower priority queues are blocked until the higher priority queue cannot dispatch any more jobs. However, it may
be desirable to give some preference to lower priority queues and regulate the flow of jobs from the queue.
Users affected by multiple fair share policies
If you belong to multiple user groups, which are controlled by different fair share policies, each group probably has a different dynamic share
priority at any given time. By default, if any one of these groups becomes the highest priority user, you could be the highest priority user in that
group, and LSF would attempt to place your job.
Re-sizable jobs and fair share
Re-sizable jobs submitting into fair share queues or host partitions are subject to fair share scheduling policies. The dynamic priority of the
user who submitted the job is the most important criterion. LSF treats pending resize allocation requests as a regular job and enforces the fair
share user priority policy to schedule them.
Parallel fair share
LSF can consider the number of CPUs when using fair share scheduling with parallel jobs.
User share assignments
Both queue-level and host partition fair share use the following syntax to deﬁne how shares are assigned to users or user groups
Dynamic user priority
LSF calculates a dynamic user priority for individual users or for a group, depending on how the shares are assigned. The priority is dynamic
because it changes as soon as any variable in formula changes. By default, a user’s dynamic priority gradually decreases after a job starts, and
the dynamic priority immediately increases when the job ﬁnishes.
Cross-queue user-based fair share
User-based fair share policies conﬁgured at the queue level handle resource contention across multiple queues.
Slot allocation per queue
Typical slot allocation scenarios
Job count based fair share scheduling
Job count based fair share scheduling uses the number of jobs in the fair share scheduling algorithm instead of the number of job slots.
Fair share scheduling
By default, LSF considers jobs for dispatch in the same order as they appear in the queue (which is not necessarily the order in which they are
submitted to the queue). This is called ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served (FCFS) scheduling.
Fair share scheduling divides the processing power of the LSF cluster among users and queues to provide fair access to resources, so that no user or
queue can monopolize the resources of the cluster and no queue will be starved.
If your cluster has many users competing for limited resources, the FCFS policy might not be enough. For example, one user could submit many long
jobs at once and monopolize the cluster’s resources for a long time, while other users submit urgent jobs that must wait in queues until all the ﬁrst
user’s jobs are all done. To prevent this, use fair share scheduling to control how resources should be shared by competing users.
Fair sharing is not necessarily equal sharing: you can assign a higher priority to the most important users. If there are two users competing for
resources, you can:
Give all the resources to the most important user
Share the resources so the most important user gets the most resources
Share the resources so that all users have equal importance
Queue-level vs. host partition fair share
You can conﬁgure fair share at either the queue level or the host level. However, these types of fair share scheduling are mutually exclusive. You
cannot conﬁgure queue-level fair share and host partition fair share in the same cluster.
If you want a user’s priority in one queue to depend on their activity in another queue, you must use cross-queue fair share or host-level fair share.
Fair share policies
A fair share policy deﬁnes the order in which LSF attempts to place jobs that are in a queue or a host partition. You can have multiple fair share
policies in a cluster, one for every different queue or host partition. You can also conﬁgure some queues or host partitions with fair share scheduling,
and leave the rest using FCFS scheduling.
758    IBM Spectrum LSF

How fair share scheduling works
Each fair share policy assigns a ﬁxed number of shares to each user or group. These shares represent a fraction of the resources that are available in
the cluster. The most important users or groups are the ones with the most shares. Users who have no shares cannot run jobs in the queue or host
partition.
A user’s dynamic priority depends on their share assignment, the dynamic priority formula, and the resources their jobs have already consumed.
The order of jobs in the queue is secondary. The most important thing is the dynamic priority of the user who submitted the job. When fair share
scheduling is used, LSF tries to place the ﬁrst job in the queue that belongs to the user with the highest dynamic priority.
Parallel fair share
LSF can consider the number of CPUs when using fair share scheduling with parallel jobs.
If the job is submitted with bsub -n, the following formula is used to calculate dynamic priority:
dynamic priority = number_shares / A
where:
A
Calculated as:
(cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + run_time * number_CPUs * RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots )* RUN_JOB_FACTOR 
+ fair_share_adjustment(struc* shareAdjustPair) * FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR + (historical_gpu_run_time + 
gpu_run_time) * ngpus_physical * GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
number_CPUs
The number of CPUs used by the job.
Conﬁguring parallel fair share
 You can conﬁgure parallel fair share so that the number of CPUs is considered when calculating dynamic priority for queue-level user-based
fair share.
Conﬁguring parallel fair share
You can conﬁgure parallel fair share so that the number of CPUs is considered when calculating dynamic priority for queue-level user-based fair
share.
About this task
Note: LSB_NCPU_ENFORCE does not apply to host-partition user-based fair share. For host-partition user-based fair share, the number of CPUs is
automatically considered.
Procedure
1. Conﬁgure fair share at the queue level.
2. Enable parallel fair share: LSB_NCPU_ENFORCE=1 in lsf.conf.
3. Run the following commands to restart all LSF daemons:
# lsadmin reconfig 
# bctrld restart res all 
# bctrld restart sbd all 
# badmin mbdrestart
User share assignments
Both queue-level and host partition fair share use the following syntax to deﬁne how shares are assigned to users or user groups
Syntax
[user, number_shares]
IBM Spectrum LSF 759

Enclose each user share assignment in square brackets, as shown. Separate multiple share assignments with a space between each set of square
brackets.
user
Specify users of the queue or host partition. You can assign the shares:
to a single user (specify user_name)
to users in a group, individually (specify group_name@) or collectively (specify group_name)
to users not included in any other share assignment, individually (specify the keyword default) or collectively (specify the keyword
others)
By default, when resources are assigned collectively to a group, the group members compete for the resources according to FCFS scheduling.
You can use hierarchical fair share to further divide the shares among the group members.
When resources are assigned to members of a group individually, the share assignment is recursive. Members of the group and of all
subgroups always compete for the resources according to FCFS scheduling, regardless of hierarchical fair share policies.
number_shares
Specify a positive integer representing the number of shares of cluster resources assigned to the user.
The number of shares assigned to each user is only meaningful when you compare it to the shares assigned to other users, or to the total
number of shares. The total number of shares is just the sum of all the shares assigned in each share assignment.
Examples
[User1, 1] [GroupB, 1]
Assigns two shares: 1 to User1, and 1 to be shared by the users in GroupB. Each user in GroupB has equal importance. User1 is as important as all
the users in GroupB put together. In this example, it does not matter if the number of shares is one, six, or 600. As long as User1 and GroupB are
both assigned the same number of shares, the relationship stays the same.
[User1, 10] [GroupB@, 1]
If GroupB contains ten users, assigns 20 shares in total: ten to User1, and 1 to each user in GroupB. Each user in GroupB has equal importance.
User1 is ten times as important as any user in GroupB.
[User1, 10] [User2, 9] [others, 8]
Assigns 27 shares: ten to User1, none to User2, and eight to the remaining users, as a group. User1 is slightly more important than User2. Each of
the remaining users has equal importance.
If there are three users in total, the single remaining user has all eight shares, and is almost as important as User1 and User2.
If there are 12 users in total, then ten users compete for those eight shares, and each of them is signiﬁcantly less important than User1 and
User2.
[User1, 10] [User2, 6] [default, 4]
The relative percentage of shares held by a user will change, depending on the number of users who are granted shares by default.
If there are three users in total, assigns 20 shares: ten to User1, six to User2, and four to the remaining user. User1 has half of the available
resources (ten shares out of 20).
If there are 12 users in total, assigns 56 shares: ten to User1, six to User2, and 4 to each of the remaining ten users. User1 has about a ﬁfth
of the available resources (ten shares out of 56).
Dynamic user priority
LSF calculates a dynamic user priority for individual users or for a group, depending on how the shares are assigned. The priority is dynamic because
it changes as soon as any variable in formula changes. By default, a user’s dynamic priority gradually decreases after a job starts, and the dynamic
priority immediately increases when the job ﬁnishes.
How LSF calculates dynamic priority
By default, LSF calculates the dynamic priority for each user based on the following criteria:
The number of shares assigned to the user
The resources used by jobs belonging to the user:
Number of job slots reserved and in use
Run time of running jobs
Cumulative actual CPU time (not normalized), adjusted so that recently used CPU time is weighted more heavily than CPU time used in
the distant past
If you enable additional functionality, the formula can also involve additional resources used by jobs belonging to the user:
760    IBM Spectrum LSF

Decayed run time of running jobs
Historical run time of ﬁnished jobs
Committed run time, speciﬁed at job submission with the -W option of bsub, or in the queue with the RUNLIMIT parameter in lsb.queues
Memory usage adjustment made by the fair share plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*).
How LSF measures fair share resource usage
LSF resource usage differently, depending on the type of fair share:
For user-based fair share:
For queue-level fair share, LSF measures the resource consumption of all the user’s jobs in the queue. This means a user’s dynamic
priority can be different in every queue.
For host partition fair share, LSF measures resource consumption for all the user’s jobs that run on hosts in the host partition. This
means a user’s dynamic priority is the same in every queue that uses hosts in the same partition.
For queue-based fair share, LSF measures the resource consumption of all jobs in each queue.
Default dynamic priority formula
By default, LSF calculates dynamic priority according to the following formula:
dynamic priority = number_shares / ((cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + run_time * RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots) * RUN_JOB_FACTOR + (1 +
fwd_job_slots) * FWD_JOB_FACTOR + fairshare_adjustment*FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR) + ((historical_gpu_run_time + gpu_run_time) *
ngpus_physical) * GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
Note: The maximum value of dynamic user priority is 100 times the number of user shares (if the denominator in the calculation is less than 0.01,
LSF rounds up to 0.01).
For cpu_time, run_time, and job_slots, LSF uses the total resource consumption of all the jobs in the queue or host partition that belong to the user or
group.
n u m b e r _ s h a r e s
The number of shares assigned to the user.
c p u _ t i m e
The cumulative CPU time used by the user (measured in hours). LSF calculates the cumulative CPU time using the actual (not normalized) CPU time
and a decay factor such that 1 hour of recently-used CPU time decays to 0.1 hours after an interval of time speciﬁed by HIST_HOURS in lsb.params
(5 hours by default).
r u n _ t i m e
The total run time of running jobs (measured in hours).
j o b _ s l o t s
The number of job slots reserved and in use.
f a i r s h a r e _ a d j u s t m e n t
The adjustment calculated by the fair share adjustment plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*).
Conﬁgure the default dynamic priority
You can give additional weight to the various factors in the priority calculation by setting the following parameters for the queue in lsb.queues or for
the cluster in lsb.params. When the queue value is not deﬁned, the cluster-wide value from lsb.params is used.
CPU_TIME_FACTOR
RUN_TIME_FACTOR
RUN_JOB_FACTOR
FWD_JOB_FACTOR
FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR
HIST_HOURS
GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR
If you modify the parameters used in the dynamic priority formula, it affects every fair share policy in the cluster:
CPU_TIME_FACTOR
The CPU time weighting factor.
Default: 0.7
FWD_JOB_FACTOR
The forwarded job slots weighting factor when using the LSF multicluster capability.
Default: Not deﬁned
IBM Spectrum LSF 761

RUN_TIME_FACTOR
The run time weighting factor.
Default: 0.7
RUN_JOB_FACTOR
The job slots weighting factor.
Default: 3
FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR
The fairs hare plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*) weighting factor.
Default: 0
HIST_HOURS
Interval for collecting resource consumption history.
Default: 5
GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR
GPU run time weighting factor.
Default: 0
Customize the dynamic priority
In some cases the dynamic priority equation may require adjustments beyond the run time, CPU time, and job slot dependencies provided by
default. The fair share adjustment plug-in is open source and can be customized once you identify speciﬁc requirements for dynamic priority.
All information used by the default priority equation (except the user shares) is passed to the fair share plug-in. In addition, the fair share plug-in is
provided with current memory use over the entire cluster and the average memory that is allocated to a slot in the cluster.
Note: If you modify the parameters used in the dynamic priority formula, it affects every fair share policy in the cluster. The fair share adjustment
plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*) is not queue-speciﬁc. Parameter settings passed to the fair share adjustment plug-in are those deﬁned in lsb.params.
Example
Jobs assigned to a single slot on a host can consume host memory to the point that other slots on the hosts are left unusable. The default dynamic
priority calculation considers job slots used, but doesn’t account for unused job slots effectively blocked by another job.
The fair share adjustment plug-in example code provided by LSF is found in the examples directory of your installation, and implements a memory-
based dynamic priority adjustment as follows:
fair share adjustment= (1+slots)*((used_memory /used_slots)/(slot_memory*THRESHOLD))
used_slots
The number of job slots in use by started jobs.
used_memory
The total memory in use by started jobs.
slot_memory
The average amount of memory that exists per slot in the cluster.
THRESHOLD
The memory threshold set in the fair share adjustment plug-in.
Use time decay and committed run time
By default, as a job is running, the dynamic priority decreases gradually until the job has ﬁnished running, then increases immediately when the job
ﬁnishes.
In some cases this can interfere with fair share scheduling if two users who have the same priority and the same number of shares submit jobs at the
same time.
To avoid these problems, you can modify the dynamic priority calculation by using one or more of the following weighting factors:
Run time decay
Historical run time decay
Committed run time
Historical run time decay
 By default, historical run time does not affect the dynamic priority. You can conﬁgure LSF so that the user’s dynamic priority increases
gradually after a job ﬁnishes. After a job is ﬁnished, its run time is saved as the historical run time of the job and the value can be used in
calculating the dynamic priority, the same way LSF considers historical CPU time in calculating priority. LSF applies a decaying algorithm to the
historical run time to gradually increase the dynamic priority over time after a job ﬁnishes.
762    IBM Spectrum LSF

Run time decay
In a cluster running jobs of varied length, a user running only short jobs may always have a higher priority than a user running a long job. This
can happen when historical run time decay is applied, decreasing the impact of the completed short jobs but not the longer job that is still
running. To correct this, you can conﬁgure LSF to decay the run time of a job that is still running in the same manner historical run time decays.
Committed run time weighting factor
The committed run time is the run time requested at job submission with the -W option for the bsub command, or in the queue conﬁguration
with the RUNLIMIT parameter. By default, committed run time does not affect the dynamic priority.
Historical run time decay
By default, historical run time does not affect the dynamic priority. You can conﬁgure LSF so that the user’s dynamic priority increases gradually after
a job ﬁnishes. After a job is ﬁnished, its run time is saved as the historical run time of the job and the value can be used in calculating the dynamic
priority, the same way LSF considers historical CPU time in calculating priority. LSF applies a decaying algorithm to the historical run time to gradually
increase the dynamic priority over time after a job ﬁnishes.
Conﬁguring historical run time
 How mbatchd reconﬁguration and restart affects historical run time
 After restarting or reconﬁguring the mbatchd daemon, the historical run time of ﬁnished jobs might be different, since it includes jobs that
may have been cleaned from mbatchd before the restart. mbatchd restart only reads recently ﬁnished jobs from lsb.events, according to the
value of CLEAN_PERIOD in lsb.params. Any jobs cleaned before restart are lost and are not included in the new calculation of the dynamic
priority.
Conﬁguring historical run time
Procedure
Specify ENABLE_HIST_RUN_TIME=Y for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in lsb.params.
Historical run time is added to the calculation of the dynamic priority so that the formula becomes the following:
dynamic priority = number_shares / A
where A is (cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + run_time * number_CPUs * RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots )* RUN_JOB_FACTOR +
fairshare_adjustment(struc* shareAdjustPair) * FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR + (historical_gpu_run_time + gpu_run_time) * ngpus_physical *
GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
historical_run_time—(measured in hours) of ﬁnished jobs accumulated in the user’s share account ﬁle. LSF calculates the historical run time using
the actual run time of ﬁnished jobs and a decay factor such that 1 hour of recently-used run time decays to 0.1 hours after an interval of time
speciﬁed by HIST_HOURS in lsb.params (5 hours by default).
How mbatchd reconﬁguration and restart affects historical run time
After restarting or reconﬁguring the mbatchd daemon, the historical run time of ﬁnished jobs might be different, since it includes jobs that may have
been cleaned from mbatchd before the restart. mbatchd restart only reads recently ﬁnished jobs from lsb.events, according to the value of
CLEAN_PERIOD in lsb.params. Any jobs cleaned before restart are lost and are not included in the new calculation of the dynamic priority.
Example
The following fair share parameters are conﬁgured in lsb.params:
CPU_TIME_FACTOR = 0 
RUN_JOB_FACTOR  = 0 
RUN_TIME_FACTOR = 1 
FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR = 0
Note that in this conﬁguration, only run time is considered in the calculation of dynamic priority. This simpliﬁes the formula to the following:
dynamic priority = number_shares / (run_time * RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
Without the historical run time, the dynamic priority increases suddenly as soon as the job ﬁnishes running because the run time becomes zero,
which gives no chance for jobs pending for other users to start.
When historical run time is included in the priority calculation, the formula becomes:
dynamic priority = number_shares / (historical_run_time + run_time) * RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
IBM Spectrum LSF 763

Now the dynamic priority increases gradually as the historical run time decays over time.
Run time decay
In a cluster running jobs of varied length, a user running only short jobs may always have a higher priority than a user running a long job. This can
happen when historical run time decay is applied, decreasing the impact of the completed short jobs but not the longer job that is still running. To
correct this, you can conﬁgure LSF to decay the run time of a job that is still running in the same manner historical run time decays.
Once a job is complete, the decayed run time is transferred to the historical run time where the decay continues. This equalizes the effect of short
and long running jobs on user dynamic priority.
Note: Running badmin reconﬁg or restarting mbatchd during a job’s run time results in the decayed run time being recalculated. When a suspended
job using run time decay is resumed, the decay time is based on the elapsed time.
Conﬁguring run time decay
 
Conﬁguring run time decay
Procedure
1. Specify HIST_HOURS for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in lsb.params.
2. Specify RUN_TIME_DECAY=Y for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in lsb.params.
The run time used in the calculation of the dynamic priority so that the formula becomes the following:
dynamic priority = number_shares  / A
where A is:
(cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + run_time * number_CPUs * RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots )* RUN_JOB_FACTOR 
+ fair_share_adjustment(struc* shareAdjustPair) * FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR + (historical_gpu_run_time + 
gpu_run_time) * ngpus_physical * GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR)
Committed run time weighting factor
The committed run time is the run time requested at job submission with the -W option for the bsub command, or in the queue conﬁguration with
the RUNLIMIT parameter. By default, committed run time does not affect the dynamic priority.
While the job is running, the actual run time is subtracted from the committed run time. The user’s dynamic priority decreases immediately to its
lowest expected value, and is maintained at that value until the job ﬁnishes. Job run time is accumulated as usual, and historical run time, if any, is
decayed.
When the job ﬁnishes, the committed run time is set to zero and the actual run time is added to the historical run time for future use. The dynamic
priority increases gradually until it reaches its maximum value.
Providing a weighting factor in the run time portion of the dynamic priority calculation prevents a job dispatching burst, where one user monopolizes
job slots because of the latency in computing run time.
Limitation
If you use queue-level fair share, and a running job has a committed run time, you should not switch that job to or from a fair share queue (using
bswitch). The fair share calculations will not be correct.
Run time displayed by bqueues and bhpart
The run time displayed by bqueues and bhpart is the sum of the actual, accumulated run time and the historical run time, but does not include the
committed run time.
Conﬁguring committed run time
 
Conﬁguring committed run time
764    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
Set a value for the COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR parameter for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in lsb.params. You should also specify
a RUN_TIME_FACTOR, to prevent the user’s dynamic priority from increasing as the run time increases.
If you have also enabled the use of historical run time, the dynamic priority is calculated according to the following formula:
dynamic priority = number_shares / (cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + (historical_run_time + run_time) * 
RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (committed_run_time - run_time) * COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots) * 
RUN_JOB_FACTOR + fair_share_adjustment(struct* shareAdjustPair)*FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR) + 
((historical_gpu_run_time + gpu_run_time) * ngpus_physical) * GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR
where committed_run_time is the run time requested at job submission with the -W option of bsub, or in the queue conﬁguration with the RUNLIMIT
parameter. This calculation measures the committed run time in hours.
In the calculation of a user’s dynamic priority, COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR determines the relative importance of the committed run time in
the calculation. If the -W option of bsub is not speciﬁed at job submission and a RUNLIMIT has not been set for the queue, the committed run time is
not considered.
COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR can be any positive value between 0.0 and 1.0. The default value set in lsb.params is 0.0. As the value of
COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR approaches 1.0, more weight is given to the committed run time in the calculation of the dynamic priority.
Example
The following fair share parameters are conﬁgured in lsb.params:
CPU_TIME_FACTOR = 0 
RUN_JOB_FACTOR = 0 
RUN_TIME_FACTOR = 1 
FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR = 0 
GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR = 0 
COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR = 1 
Without a committed run time factor, dynamic priority for the job owner drops gradually while a job is running:
When a committed run time factor is included in the priority calculation, the dynamic priority drops as soon as the job is dispatched, rather than
gradually dropping as the job runs:
IBM Spectrum LSF 765

How fair share affects job dispatch order
Within a queue, jobs are dispatched according to the queue’s scheduling policy.
For FCFS queues, the dispatch order depends on the order of jobs in the queue (which depends on job priority and submission time, and can
also be modiﬁed by the job owner).
For fair share queues, the dispatch order depends on dynamic share priority, then order of jobs in the queue (which is not necessarily the order
in which they are submitted to the queue).
A user’s priority gets higher when they use less than their fair share of the cluster’s resources. When a user has the highest priority, LSF considers
one of their jobs ﬁrst, even if other users are ahead of them in the queue.
If there are only one user’s jobs pending, and you do not use hierarchical fair share, then there is no resource contention between users, so the fair
share policies have no effect and jobs are dispatched as usual.
Job dispatch order among queues of equivalent priority
The order of dispatch depends on the order of the queues in the queue conﬁguration ﬁle. The ﬁrst queue in the list is the ﬁrst to be scheduled.
Jobs in a fair share queue are always considered as a group, so the scheduler attempts to place all jobs in the queue before beginning to schedule
the next queue.
Jobs in an FCFS queue are always scheduled along with jobs from other FCFS queues of the same priority (as if all the jobs belonged to the same
queue).
Example
In a cluster, queues A, B, and C are conﬁgured in that order and have equal queue priority.
Jobs with equal job priority are submitted to each queue in this order: C, B, A, B, and A.
If all queues are FCFS queues, order of dispatch is C, B, A, B, and A (queue A is ﬁrst; queues B and C are the same priority as A; all jobs are
scheduled in FCFS order).
If all queues are fair share queues, order of dispatch is AA, BB, and C (queue A is ﬁrst; all jobs in the queue are scheduled; then queue B, then
C).
If A and C are fair share, and B is FCFS, order of dispatch is AA, B, B, and C (queue A jobs are scheduled according to user priority; then queue
B jobs are scheduled in FCFS order; then queue C jobs are scheduled according to user priority)
If A and C are FCFS, and B is fair share, order of dispatch is C, A, A, and BB (queue A is ﬁrst; queue A and C jobs are scheduled in FCFS order,
then queue B jobs are scheduled according to user priority)
If any of these queues uses cross-queue fair share, the other queues must also use cross-queue fair share and belong to the same set, or they
cannot have the same queue priority.
Host partition user-based fair share
766    IBM Spectrum LSF

User-based fair share policies that are conﬁgured at the host level handle resource contention across multiple queues. You can deﬁne a different fair
share policy for every host partition. If multiple queues use the host partition, a user has the same priority across multiple queues.
To run a job on a host that has fair share, users must have a share assignment (USER_SHARES in the HostPartition section of lsb.hosts). Even
cluster administrators cannot submit jobs to a fair share host if they do not have a share assignment.
Conﬁguring host partition fair share scheduling
 
Conﬁguring host partition fair share scheduling
Procedure
To conﬁgure host partition fair share, deﬁne a host partition in lsb.hosts.
Use the following format:
Begin HostPartition  
HPART_NAME = Partition1  
HOSTS = hostA hostB ~hostC  
USER_SHARES = [groupA@, 3] [groupB, 7] [default, 1]  
End HostPartition
A host cannot belong to multiple partitions.
Optional: Use the reserved host name all to conﬁgure a single partition that applies to all hosts in a cluster.
Optional: Use the not operator (~) to exclude hosts or host groups from the list of hosts in the host partition.
Hosts in a host partition cannot participate in queue-based fair share.
Hosts that are not included in any host partition are controlled by FCFS scheduling policy instead of fair share scheduling policy.
Queue-level user-based fair share
User-based fair share policies conﬁgured at the queue level handle resource contention among users in the same queue. You can deﬁne a different
fair share policy for every queue, even if they share the same hosts. A user’s priority is calculated separately for each queue.
To submit jobs to a fair share queue, users must be allowed to use the queue (USERS in the lsb.queues ﬁle) and must have a share assignment (a
value of fairshare in the lsb.queues ﬁle). Even cluster and queue administrators cannot submit jobs to a fair share queue if they do not have a
share assignment.
If the default user group set in DEFAULT_USER_GROUP (in the lsb.params ﬁle) does not have shares assigned in a fair share queue, jobs can still run
from the default user group, and are charged to the highest priority account the user can access in the queue. The default user group should have
shares assigned in most fair share queues to ensure jobs run smoothly.
Job submitted with a user group (bsub -G) which is no longer valid when the job runs charge the default user group (if deﬁned) or the highest priority
account the user can access in the queue (if no default user group is deﬁned). In such cases bjobs -l output shows the submission user group, along
with the updated SAAP (share attribute account path).
By default, user share accounts are created for users in each user group, whether they have active jobs or not. When many user groups in the fair
share policy have all as a member, the memory used creating user share accounts on startup of the mbatchd daemon can be noticeable. Limit the
number of share accounts created to active users (and all members of the default user group) by setting LSB_SACCT_ONE_UG=Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Conﬁguring queue-level fair share
 Cross-queue user-based fair share
 User-based fair share policies conﬁgured at the queue level handle resource contention across multiple queues.
Conﬁguring queue-level fair share
Procedure
To conﬁgure a fair share queue, deﬁne fair share in lsb.queues and specify a share assignment for all users of the queue:
fair share = USER_SHARES[[user, number_shares]...]
You must specify at least one user share assignment.
Enclose the list in square brackets, as shown.
Enclose each user share assignment in square brackets, as shown.
IBM Spectrum LSF 767

Cross-queue user-based fair share
User-based fair share policies conﬁgured at the queue level handle resource contention across multiple queues.
Apply the same fair share policy to several queues
With cross-queue fair share, the same user-based fair share policy can apply to several queues can at the same time. You deﬁne the fair share policy
in a parent_queue and list child_queues to which the same fair share policy applies; child queues inherit the same fair share policy as your parent
queue. For job scheduling purposes, this is equivalent to having one queue with one fair share tree.
In this way, if a user submits jobs to different queues, user priority is calculated by taking into account all the jobs the user has submitted across the
deﬁned queues.
To submit jobs to a fair share queue, users must be allowed to use the queue (USERS in lsb.queues) and must have a share assignment (FAIRSHARE
in lsb.queues). Even cluster and queue administrators cannot submit jobs to a fair share queue if they do not have a share assignment.
User and queue priority
By default, a user has the same priority across the parent and child queues. If the same user submits several jobs to these queues, user priority is
calculated by taking into account all the jobs the user has submitted across the parent-child set.
If DISPATCH_ORDER=QUEUE is set in the parent queue, jobs are dispatched according to queue priorities ﬁrst, then user priority. This avoids having
users with higher fair share priority getting jobs dispatched from low-priority queues.
Jobs from users with lower fair share priorities who have pending jobs in higher priority queues are dispatched before jobs in lower priority queues.
Jobs in queues having the same priority are dispatched according to user priority.
Queues that are not part of the ordered cross-queue fair share can have any priority. Their priority can fall within the priority range of cross-queue fair
share queues and they can be inserted between two queues using the same fair share tree.
Conﬁguring cross-queue fair share
 Control job dispatch order in cross-queue fair share
 
Conﬁguring cross-queue fair share
About this task
FAIRSHARE must be deﬁned in the parent queue. If it is also deﬁned in the queues that are listed in FAIRSHARE_QUEUES, it will be ignored.
Cross-queue fair sharing can be deﬁned more than once within lsb.queues. You can deﬁne several sets of parent-child queues. However, a
queue cannot belong to more than one parent-child set. For example, you can deﬁne:
In parent queue normal: FAIRSHARE_QUEUES=short
In parent queue priority: FAIRSHARE_QUEUES= night owners
You cannot, however, deﬁne night, owners, or priority as children in the normal queue; or normal, short as children in the priority
queue; or short, night, owners as parent queues of their own.
Cross-queue fair sharing cannot be used with host partition fair sharing. It is part of queue-level fair sharing.
Procedure
1. Decide to which queues in your cluster cross-queue fair sharing will apply.
For example, in your cluster you may have the queues normal, priority, short, and you want cross-queue fair sharing to apply only to
normal, and short.
2. Deﬁne fair share policies in your parent queue.
In the queue you want to be the parent, for example normal, deﬁne the following in lsb.queues:
FAIRSHARE and specify a share assignment for all users of the queue.
FAIRSHARE_QUEUES and list child queues to which the deﬁned fair share policy will also apply
PRIORITY to indicate the priority of the queue.
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME   = queue1  
PRIORITY     = 30  
NICE         = 20  
FAIRSHARE    = USER_SHARES[[user1,100] [default,1]]  
FAIRSHARE_QUEUES = queue2 queue3  
768    IBM Spectrum LSF

DESCRIPTION  = For normal low priority jobs, running only if hosts are lightly loaded.  
End Queue
3. In all the child queues listed in FAIRSHARE_QUEUES, deﬁne all queue values as desired.
For example:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME    = queue2  
PRIORITY      = 40  
NICE          = 20  
UJOB_LIMIT    = 4  
PJOB_LIMIT    = 2  
End Queue 
  
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME    = queue3  
PRIORITY      = 50  
NICE          = 10  
PREEMPTION = PREEMPTIVE  
QJOB_LIMIT    = 10  
UJOB_LIMIT    = 1  
PJOB_LIMIT    = 1  
End Queue
Control job dispatch order in cross-queue fair share
DISPATCH_ORDER parameter (lsb.queues)
Use DISPATCH_ORDER=QUEUE in the parent queue to deﬁne an ordered cross-queue fair share set. DISPATCH_ORDER indicates that jobs are
dispatched according to the order of queue priorities, not user fair share priority.
Priority range in cross-queue fair share
By default, the range of priority deﬁned for queues in cross-queue fair share cannot be used with any other queues. The priority of queues that are
not part of the cross-queue fair share cannot fall between the priority range of cross-queue fair share queues.
For example, you have four queues: queue1, queue2, queue3, and queue4. You conﬁgure cross-queue fair share for queue1, queue2, and queue3,
and assign priorities of 30, 40, 50 respectively. The priority of queue4 (which is not part of the cross-queue fair share) cannot fall between 30 and
50, but it can be any number up to 29 or higher than 50. It does not matter if queue4 is a fair share queue or FCFS queue.
If DISPATCH_ORDER=QUEUE is set in the parent queue, queues that are not part of the ordered cross-queue fair share can have any priority. Their
priority can fall within the priority range of cross-queue fair share queues and they can be inserted between two queues using the same fair share
tree. In the example above, queue4 can have any priority, including a priority falling between the priority range of the cross-queue fair share queues
(30-50).
Jobs from equal priority queues
If two or more non-fair share queues have the same priority, their jobs are dispatched ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served based on submission time or job
ID as if they come from the same queue.
If two or more fair share queues have the same priority, jobs are dispatched in the order the queues are listed in lsb.queues.
User-based fair share
User-based fair share lets you allocate resources to users in a hierarchical manner.
By default, when shares are assigned to a group, group members compete for resources according to FCFS policy. If you use hierarchical fair share,
you control the way shares that are assigned collectively are divided among group members. If groups have subgroups, you can conﬁgure additional
levels of share assignments, resulting in a multi-level share tree that becomes part of the fair share policy.
How hierarchical user-based fair share affects dynamic share priority
When you use hierarchical fair share, the dynamic share priority formula does not change, but LSF measures the resource consumption for all levels
of the share tree. To calculate the dynamic priority of a group, LSF uses the resource consumption of all the jobs in the queue or host partition that
belong to users in the group and all its subgroups, recursively.
How hierarchical user-based fair share affects job dispatch order
IBM Spectrum LSF 769

LSF uses the dynamic share priority of a user or group to ﬁnd out which user's job to run next. If you use hierarchical fair share, LSF works through
the share tree from the top level down, and compares the dynamic priority of users and groups at each level until the user with the highest dynamic
priority is a single user, or a group that has no subgroups.
Conﬁgure hierarchical fair share
 To deﬁne a hierarchical fair share policy, conﬁgure the top-level share assignment in lsb.queues or lsb.hosts, as usual. Then, for any group of
users affected by the fair share policy, conﬁgure a share tree in the UserGroup section of lsb.users. This speciﬁes how shares assigned to the
group, collectively, are distributed among the individual users or subgroups.
Conﬁguring a share tree
 User share assignments
 Both queue-level and host partition fair share use the following syntax to deﬁne how shares are assigned to users or user groups
Dynamic user priority
 LSF calculates a dynamic user priority for individual users or for a group, depending on how the shares are assigned. The priority is dynamic
because it changes as soon as any variable in formula changes. By default, a user’s dynamic priority gradually decreases after a job starts, and
the dynamic priority immediately increases when the job ﬁnishes.
Conﬁgure hierarchical fair share
To deﬁne a hierarchical fair share policy, conﬁgure the top-level share assignment in lsb.queues or lsb.hosts, as usual. Then, for any group of users
affected by the fair share policy, conﬁgure a share tree in the UserGroup section of lsb.users. This speciﬁes how shares assigned to the group,
collectively, are distributed among the individual users or subgroups.
If shares are assigned to members of any group individually, using @, there can be no further hierarchical fair share within that group. The shares are
assigned recursively to all members of all subgroups, regardless of further share distributions deﬁned in lsb.users. The group members and
members of all subgroups compete for resources according to FCFS policy.
You can choose to deﬁne a hierarchical share tree for some groups but not others. If you do not deﬁne a share tree for any group or subgroup,
members compete for resources according to FCFS policy.
Conﬁguring a share tree
Procedure
Group membership is already deﬁned in the UserGroup section of lsb.users. To conﬁgure a share tree, use the USER_SHARES column to describe
how the shares are distributed in a hierarchical manner. Use the following format.
Begin UserGroup  
GROUP_NAME    GROUP_MEMBER          USER_SHARES  
GroupB       (User1 User2)          ()  
GroupC       (User3 User4)          ([User3, 3] [User4, 4])  
GroupA       (GroupB GroupC User5)  ([User5, 1] [default, 10])
User groups must be deﬁned before they can be used (in the GROUP_MEMBER column) to deﬁne other groups.
Shares (in the USER_SHARES column) can only be assigned to user groups in the GROUP_MEMBER column.
The keyword all refers to all users, not all user groups.
Enclose the share assignment list in parentheses, as shown, even if you do not specify any user share assignments.
Example
An Engineering queue or host partition organizes users hierarchically, and divides the shares as shown; the actual number of shares assigned at
each level do not matter:
770    IBM Spectrum LSF

The Development group gets the largest share (50%) of the resources in the event of contention. Shares that are assigned to the Development
group can be further divided among the Systems, Application, and Test groups, which receive 15%, 35%, and 50%, respectively. At the lowest
level, individual users compete for these shares as usual.
One way to measure a user’s importance is to multiply their percentage of the resources at every level of the share tree. For example, User1 is
entitled to 10% of the available resources (.50 x .80 x .25 = .10) and User3 is entitled to 4% (.80 x .20 x .25 = .04). However, if Research has the
highest dynamic share priority among the 3 groups at the top level, and ChipY has a higher dynamic priority than ChipX, the next comparison is
between User3 and User4, so the importance of User1 is not relevant. The dynamic priority of User1 is not even calculated at this point.
Queue-based fair share
When a priority is set in a queue conﬁguration, a high priority queue tries to dispatch as many jobs as it can before allowing lower priority queues to
dispatch any job. Lower priority queues are blocked until the higher priority queue cannot dispatch any more jobs. However, it may be desirable to
give some preference to lower priority queues and regulate the flow of jobs from the queue.
Queue-based fair sharing allows flexible slot allocation per queue as an alternative to absolute queue priorities by enforcing a soft job slot limit on a
queue. This allows you to organize the priorities of your work and tune the number of jobs dispatched from a queue so that no single queue
monopolizes cluster resources, leaving other queues waiting to dispatch jobs.
You can balance the distribution of job slots among queues by conﬁguring a ratio of jobs waiting to be dispatched from each queue. LSF then
attempts to dispatch a certain percentage of jobs from each queue, and does not attempt to drain the highest priority queue entirely ﬁrst.
When queues compete, the allocated slots per queue are kept within the limits of the conﬁgured share. If only one queue in the pool has jobs, that
queue can use all the available resources and can span its usage across all hosts it could potentially run jobs on.
Manage pools of queues
You can conﬁgure your queues into a pool, which is a named group of queues using the same set of hosts. A pool is entitled to a slice of the available
job slots. You can conﬁgure as many pools as you need, but each pool must use the same set of hosts. There can be queues in the cluster that do not
belong to any pool yet share some hosts that are used by a pool.
How LSF allocates slots for a pool of queues
During job scheduling, LSF orders the queues within each pool based on the shares the queues are entitled to. The number of running jobs (or job
slots in use) is maintained at the percentage level that is speciﬁed for the queue. When a queue has no pending jobs, leftover slots are redistributed
to other queues in the pool with jobs pending.
The total number of slots in each pool is constant; it is equal to the number of slots in use plus the number of free slots to the maximum job slot limit
conﬁgured either in lsb.hosts (MXJ) or in lsb.resources for a host or host group. The accumulation of slots in use by the queue is used in ordering the
queues for dispatch.
Job limits and host limits are enforced by the scheduler. For example, if LSF determines that a queue is eligible to run 50 jobs, but the queue has a
job limit of 40 jobs, no more than 40 jobs will run. The remaining 10 job slots are redistributed among other queues belonging to the same pool, or
make them available to other queues that are conﬁgured to use them.
IBM Spectrum LSF 771

Accumulated slots in use
As queues run the jobs allocated to them, LSF accumulates the slots each queue has used and decays this value over time, so that each queue is not
allocated more slots than it deserves, and other queues in the pool have a chance to run their share of jobs.
Interaction with other scheduling policies
Queues participating in a queue-based fair share pool cannot be preemptive or pre-emptable.
You should not conﬁgure slot reservation (SLOT_RESERVE) in queues that use queue-based fair share.
Cross-queue user-based fair share (FAIRSHARE_QUEUES) can undo the dispatching decisions of queue-based fair share. Cross-queue user-
based fair share queues should not be part of a queue-based fair share pool.
When SLOT_RESERVE and BACKFILL are deﬁned (in lsb.queues) for the same queue, jobs in the queue cannot backﬁll using slots reserved by
other jobs in the same queue.
Examples
Three queues using two hosts each with maximum job slot limit of 6 for a total of 12 slots to be allocated:
queue1 shares 50% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.5 = 6 
slots
queue2 shares 30% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.3 = 3.6 = 4 
slots
queue3 shares 20% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.2 = 2.4 = 3 
slots; however, since the total cannot be more than 12, queue3 is actually allocated only 2 slots.
Four queues using two hosts each with maximum job slot limit of 6 for a total of 12 slots; queue4 does not belong to any pool:
queue1 shares 50% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.5 = 6
queue2 shares 30% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.3 = 3.6 = 
4
queue3 shares 20% of slots to be allocated = 2 * 6 * 0.2 = 2.4 = 
2
queue4 shares no slots with other queues
queue4 causes the total number of slots to be less than the total free and in use by the queue1, queue2, and queue3 that do belong to the
pool. It is possible that the pool may get all its shares used up by queue4, and jobs from the pool will remain pending.
queue1, queue2, and queue3 belong to one pool, queue6, queue7, and queue8 belong to another pool, and queue4 and queue5 do not belong to
any pool:
LSF orders the queues in the two pools from higher-priority queue to lower-priority queue (queue1 is highest and queue8 is lowest):
queue1 -> queue2 -> queue3 -> queue6 -> queue7 -> queue8
If the queue belongs to a pool, jobs are dispatched from the highest priority queue ﬁrst. Queues that do not belong to any pool (queue4 and
queue5) are merged into this ordered list according to their priority, but LSF dispatches as many jobs from the non-pool queues as it can:
queue1 -> queue2 -> queue3 -> queue4 -> queue5 -> queue6 -> queue7 -> queue8
Slot allocation per queue
Conﬁgure as many pools as you need in lsb.queues.
Note: This feature is deprecated and might be removed in a future version of LSF.
SLOT_SHARE parameter
The SLOT_SHARE parameter represents the percentage of running jobs (job slots) in use from the queue. SLOT_SHARE must be greater than zero and
less than or equal to 100.
The sum of SLOT_SHARE for all queues in the pool does not need to be 100%. It can be more or less, depending on your needs.
SLOT_POOL parameter
The SLOT_POOL parameter is the name of the pool of job slots the queue belongs to. A queue can only belong to one pool. All queues in the pool
must share the same set of hosts.
MAX_SLOTS_IN_POOL parameter
772    IBM Spectrum LSF

The optional parameter MAX_SLOTS_IN_POOL sets a limit on the number of slots available for a slot pool. This parameter is deﬁned in the ﬁrst
queue of the slot pool in lsb.queues.
USE_PRIORITY_IN_POOL parameter
The optional parameter USE_PRIORITY_IN_POOL enables LSF scheduling to allocate any unused slots in the pool to jobs based on the job priority
across the queues in the slot pool. This parameter is deﬁned in the ﬁrst queue of the slot pool in lsb.queues.
Host job slot limit
The hosts that are used by the pool must have a maximum job slot limit, conﬁgured either in lsb.hosts (MXJ) or lsb.resources (HOSTS and SLOTS).
Conﬁguring slot allocation per queue
 
Conﬁguring slot allocation per queue
Procedure
1. For each queue that uses queue-based fair share, deﬁne the following in lsb.queues:
a. SLOT_SHARE
b. SLOT_POOL
2. Optional: Deﬁne the following in lsb.queues for each queue that uses queue-based fair share:
a. HOSTS to list the hosts that can receive jobs from the queue
If no hosts are deﬁned for the queue, the default is all hosts.
Tip: Hosts for queue-based fair share cannot be in a host partition.
b. PRIORITY to indicate the priority of the queue.
3. For each host used by the pool, deﬁne a maximum job slot limit, either in lsb.hosts (MXJ) or lsb.resources (HOSTS and SLOTS).
Conﬁgure two pools
The following example conﬁgures pool A with three queues, with different shares, using the hosts in host group groupA:
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue1  
PRIORITY   = 50  
SLOT_POOL  = poolA  
SLOT_SHARE = 50  
HOSTS      = groupA  
...  
End Queue 
  
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue2  
PRIORITY   = 48  
SLOT_POOL  = poolA  
SLOT_SHARE = 30  
HOSTS      = groupA  
...  
End Queue 
  
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue3  
PRIORITY   = 46  
SLOT_POOL  = poolA  
SLOT_SHARE = 20  
HOSTS      = groupA  
...  
End Queue
The following conﬁgures a pool named poolB, with three queues with equal shares, using the hosts in host group groupB, setting a maximum
number of slots for the pool (MAX_SLOTS_IN_POOL) and enabling a second round of scheduling based on job priority across the queues in the pool
(USE_PRIORITY_IN_POOL):
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue4  
PRIORITY   = 44  
SLOT_POOL  = poolB  
SLOT_SHARE = 30  
HOSTS      = groupB  
MAX_SLOTS_IN_POOL=128 
USE_PRIORITY_IN_POOL=Y 
IBM Spectrum LSF 773

...  
End Queue 
  
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue5  
PRIORITY   = 43  
SLOT_POOL  = poolB  
SLOT_SHARE = 30  
HOSTS      = groupB  
...  
End Queue 
  
Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = queue6  
PRIORITY   = 42  
SLOT_POOL  = poolB  
SLOT_SHARE = 30  
HOSTS      = groupB  
...  
End Queue
Typical slot allocation scenarios
3 queues with SLOT_SHARE 50%, 30%, 20%, with 15 job slots
This scenario has three phases:
1. All three queues have jobs running, and LSF assigns the number of slots to queues as expected: 8, 5, 2. Though queue Genova deserves 3
slots, the total slot assignment must be 15, so Genova is allocated only 2 slots:
bqueues 
QUEUE_NAME    PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma           50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   992     8     0  
Verona         48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   995   990     5     0  
Genova         48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   996   994     2     0 
2. When queue Verona has done its work, queues Roma and Genova get their respective shares of 8 and 3. This leaves 4 slots to be redistributed
to queues according to their shares: 50% (2 slots) to Roma, 20% (1 slot) to Genova. The one remaining slot is assigned to queue Roma again:
bqueues 
QUEUE_NAME  PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma         50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   231   221    11     0  
Verona       48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0  
Genova       48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   496   491     4     0 
3. When queues Roma and Verona have no more work to do, Genova can use all the available slots in the cluster:
bqueues 
QUEUE_NAME   PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma          50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0  
Verona        48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0  
Genova        48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   475   460    15     0 
The following ﬁgure illustrates phases 1, 2, and 3:
774    IBM Spectrum LSF

2 pools, 30 job slots, and 2 queues out of any pool
poolA uses 15 slots and contains queues Roma (50% share, 8 slots), Verona (30% share, 5 slots), and Genova (20% share, 2 remaining slots
to total 15).
poolB with 15 slots containing queues Pisa (30% share, 5 slots), Venezia (30% share, 5 slots), and Bologna (30% share, 5 slots).
Two other queues Milano and Parma do not belong to any pool, but they can use the hosts of poolB. The queues from Milano to Bologna all
have the same priority.
The queues Milano and Parma run very short jobs that get submitted periodically in bursts. When no jobs are running in them, the distribution of
jobs looks like this:
QUEUE_NAME  PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma         50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   992     8     0  
Verona       48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   995     5     0  
Genova       48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   998     2     0  
Pisa         44   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   995     5     0  
Milano       43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -     2     2     0     0  
Parma        43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -     2     2     0     0  
Venezia      43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   995     5     0  
Bologna      43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -  1000   995     5     0 
IBM Spectrum LSF 775

When Milano and Parma have jobs, their higher priority reduces the share of slots free and in use by Venezia and Bologna:
QUEUE_NAME   PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma          50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   992   984     8     0  
Verona        48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   993   990     3     0  
Genova        48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   996   994     2     0  
Pisa          44   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   995   990     5     0  
Milano        43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    10     7     3     0  
Parma         43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    11     8     3     0  
Venezia       43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   995   995     2     0  
Bologna       43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   995   995     2     0 
Round-robin slot distribution: 13 queues and 2 pools
776    IBM Spectrum LSF

Pool poolA has 3 hosts each with 7 slots for a total of 21 slots to be shared. The ﬁrst 3 queues are part of the pool poolA sharing the CPUs
with proportions 50% (11 slots), 30% (7 slots) and 20% (3 remaining slots to total 21 slots).
The other 10 queues belong to pool poolB, which has 3 hosts each with 7 slots for a total of 21 slots to be shared. Each queue has 10% of the
pool (3 slots).
The initial slot distribution looks like this:
bqueues 
QUEUE_NAME   PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma          50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    15     6    11     0  
Verona        48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    25    18     7     0  
Genova        47   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   460   455     3     0  
Pisa          44   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   264   261     3     0  
Milano        43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   262   259     3     0  
Parma         42   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   260   257     3     0  
Bologna       40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   260   257     3     0  
Sora          40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   261   258     3     0  
Ferrara       40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   258   255     3     0  
Napoli        40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   259   256     3     0  
Livorno       40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   258   258     0     0  
Palermo       40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   256   256     0     0  
Venezia        4   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   255   255     0     0 
Initially, queues Livorno, Palermo, and Venezia in poolB are not assigned any slots because the ﬁrst 7 higher priority queues have used all 21
slots available for allocation.
As jobs run and each queue accumulates used slots, LSF favors queues that have not run jobs yet. As jobs ﬁnish in the ﬁrst 7 queues of poolB, slots
are redistributed to the other queues that originally had no jobs (queues Livorno, Palermo, and Venezia). The total slot count remains 21 in all
queues in poolB.
bqueues 
QUEUE_NAME    PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP   
Roma           50   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    15     6     9     0  
Verona         48   Open:Active      -    -    -    -    25    18     7     0  
Genova         47   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   460   455     5     0  
Pisa           44   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   263   261     2     0  
Milano         43   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   261   259     2     0  
Parma          42   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   259   257     2     0  
Bologna        40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   259   257     2     0  
Sora           40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   260   258     2     0  
Ferrara        40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   257   255     2     0  
Napoli         40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   258   256     2     0  
Livorno        40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   258   256     2     0  
Palermo        40   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   256   253     3     0  
Venezia         4   Open:Active      -    -    -    -   255   253     2     0 
The following ﬁgure illustrates the round-robin distribution of slot allocations between queues Livorno and Palermo:
How LSF rebalances slot usage
IBM Spectrum LSF 777

In the following examples, job runtime is not equal, but varies randomly over time.
3 queues in one pool with 50%, 30%, 20% shares
A pool conﬁgures 3 queues:
queue1 50% with short-running jobs
queue2 20% with short-running jobs
queue3 30% with longer running jobs
As queue1 and queue2 ﬁnish their jobs, the number of jobs in queue3 expands, and as queue1 and queue2 get more work, LSF rebalances
the usage:
10 queues sharing 10% each of 50 slots
In this example, queue1 (the curve with the highest peaks) has the longer running jobs and so has less accumulated slots in use over time.
LSF accordingly rebalances the load when all queues compete for jobs to maintain a conﬁgured 10% usage share.
778    IBM Spectrum LSF

Users affected by multiple fair share policies
If you belong to multiple user groups, which are controlled by different fair share policies, each group probably has a different dynamic share priority
at any given time. By default, if any one of these groups becomes the highest priority user, you could be the highest priority user in that group, and
LSF would attempt to place your job.
To restrict the number of fair share policies that will affect your job, submit your job and specify a single user group that your job will belong to, for
the purposes of fair share scheduling. LSF will not attempt to dispatch this job unless the group you speciﬁed is the highest priority user. If you
become the highest priority user because of some other share assignment, another one of your jobs might be dispatched, but not this one.
Submitting a job and specify a user group
 Associate a job with a user group for fair share scheduling.
Submitting a job and specify a user group
Associate a job with a user group for fair share scheduling.
Procedure
Use bsub -G and specify a group that you belong to.
For example, User1 shares resources with groupA and groupB. User1 is also a member of groupA, but not any other groups.
User1 submits a job: bsub sleep 100.
By default, the job could be considered for dispatch if either User1 or GroupA has highest dynamic share priority.
User1 submits a job and associates the job with GroupA:
bsub -G groupA sleep 100
If User1 is the highest priority user, this job will not be considered.
User1 can only associate the job with a group of which they are a member.
User1 cannot associate the job with his individual user account because bsub -G only accepts group names.
Example with hierarchical fair share
In the share tree, User1 shares resources with GroupA at the top level. GroupA has 2 subgroups, B and C. GroupC has 1 subgroup, GroupD. User1
also belongs to GroupB and GroupC.
User1 submits a job:
bsub sleep 100
By default, the job could be considered for dispatch if either User1, GroupB, or GroupC has highest dynamic share priority.
User1 submits a job and associates the job with GroupB:
bsub -G groupB sleep 100
If User1 or GroupC is the highest priority user, this job will not be considered.
User1 cannot associate the job with GroupC, because GroupC includes a subgroup.
User1 cannot associate the job with his individual user account because bsub -G only accepts group names.
Ways to conﬁgure fair share
Chargeback fair share
 Chargeback fair share lets competing users share the same hardware resources according to a ﬁxed ratio. Each user is entitled to a speciﬁed
portion of the available resources.
Equal share
 Equal share balances resource usage equally between users.
Priority user and static priority fair share
 There are two ways to conﬁgure fair share so that a more important user’s job always overrides the job of a less important user, regardless of
resource use.
IBM Spectrum LSF 779

Host partition fair share
Host partition fair share balances resource usage across the entire cluster according to one single fair share policy. Resources that are used in
one queue affect job dispatch order in another queue.
GPU runtime fair share
GPU runtime fair share lets you consider GPU run time and historical run time as weighting factors in the dynamic priority calculation.
Host partition fair share
Host partition fair share balances resource usage across the entire cluster according to one single fair share policy. Resources that are used in one
queue affect job dispatch order in another queue.
If two users compete for resources, their dynamic share priority is the same in every queue.
Conﬁguring host partition fair share
 
Conﬁguring host partition fair share
Procedure
Use the keyword all to conﬁgure a single partition that includes all the hosts in the cluster.
Begin HostPartition  
HPART_NAME =GlobalPartition  
HOSTS = all  
USER_SHARES = [groupA@, 3] [groupB, 7] [default, 1]  
End HostPartition
Chargeback fair share
Chargeback fair share lets competing users share the same hardware resources according to a ﬁxed ratio. Each user is entitled to a speciﬁed portion
of the available resources.
If two users compete for resources, the most important user is entitled to more resources.
Conﬁguring chargeback fair share
 
Conﬁguring chargeback fair share
Procedure
To conﬁgure chargeback fair share, put competing users in separate user groups and assign a fair number of shares to each group.
Example
About this task
Suppose that two departments contributed to the purchase of a large system. The engineering department contributed 70 percent of the cost, and
the accounting department 30 percent. Each department wants to get their money’s worth from the system.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne two user groups in lsb.users, one listing all the engineers, and one listing all the accountants.
Begin UserGroup  
Group_Name   Group_Member  
eng_users    (user6 user4)  
acct_users   (user2 user5)  
End UserGroup
2. Conﬁgure a host partition for the host, and assign the shares appropriately.
780    IBM Spectrum LSF

Begin HostPartition  
HPART_NAME = big_servers  
HOSTS = hostH  
USER_SHARES = [eng_users, 7] [acct_users, 3]  
End HostPartition
Equal share
Equal share balances resource usage equally between users.
Conﬁguring equal share
Conﬁguring equal share
Procedure
To conﬁgure equal share, use the keyword default to deﬁne an equal share for every user.
Begin HostPartition  
HPART_NAME = equal_share_partition  
HOSTS = all  
USER_SHARES = [default, 1]  
End HostPartition
Priority user and static priority fair share
There are two ways to conﬁgure fair share so that a more important user’s job always overrides the job of a less important user, regardless of
resource use.
Priority user fair share
Dynamic priority is calculated as usual, but more important and less important users are assigned a drastically different number of shares, so
that resource use has virtually no effect on the dynamic priority: the user with the overwhelming majority of shares always goes ﬁrst. However,
if two users have a similar or equal number of shares, their resource use still determines which of them goes ﬁrst. This is useful for isolating a
group of high-priority or low-priority users, while allowing other fair share policies to operate as usual most of the time.
Static priority fair share
Dynamic priority is no longer dynamic because resource use is ignored. The user with the most shares always goes ﬁrst. This is useful to
conﬁgure multiple users in a descending order of priority.
Conﬁguring priority user fair share
 A queue is shared by key users and other users. Priority user fair sharing gives priority to important users, so their jobs override the jobs of
other users. You can still use fair share policies to balance resources among each group of users.
Conﬁguring static priority fair share
 Static priority fair share assigns resources to the user with the most shares. Resource usage is ignored.
Conﬁguring priority user fair share
A queue is shared by key users and other users. Priority user fair sharing gives priority to important users, so their jobs override the jobs of other
users. You can still use fair share policies to balance resources among each group of users.
About this task
If two users compete for resources, and one of them is a priority user, the priority user’s job always runs ﬁrst.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne a user group for priority users in lsb.users, naming it accordingly.
For example, key_users.
2. Conﬁgure fair share and assign the overwhelming majority of shares to the key users:
IBM Spectrum LSF 781

Begin Queue  
QUEUE_NAME = production  
FAIRSHARE = USER_SHARES[[key_users@, 2000] [others, 1]]  
...  
End Queue
In the preceding example, key users have 2000 shares each, while other users together have only one share. This makes it virtually impossible
for other users’ jobs to get dispatched unless none of the users in the key_users group has jobs waiting to run.
If you want the same fair share policy to apply to jobs from all queues, conﬁgure host partition fair share in a similar way.
Conﬁguring static priority fair share
Static priority fair share assigns resources to the user with the most shares. Resource usage is ignored.
Procedure
To implement static priority fair share, edit the lsb.params ﬁle and set all the weighting factors that are used in the dynamic priority formula to 0
(zero):
Set CPU_TIME_FACTOR to 0
Set RUN_TIME_FACTOR to 0
Set RUN_JOB_FACTOR to 0
Set COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR to 0
Set FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR to 0
Set GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR to 0
This results in dynamic priority = number_shares / 
0.01; that is, ff the denominator in the dynamic priority calculation is less than 0.01, IBM® Spectrum LSF rounds up to 0.01.
Results
If two users compete for resources, the most important user’s job always runs ﬁrst.
GPU runtime fair share
GPU runtime fair share lets you consider GPU run time and historical run time as weighting factors in the dynamic priority calculation.
Conﬁguring GPU run time
 
Conﬁguring GPU run time
Procedure
1. Set a value for the GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR parameter for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in lsb.params.
2. To enable historical GPU run time of ﬁnished jobs, specify ENABLE_GPU_HIST_RUN_TIME=Y for the queue in lsb.queues or for the cluster in
lsb.params.
Enabling historical GPU time ensures that the user's priority does not increase signiﬁcantly after a GPU job ﬁnishes.
Results
If you set the GPU run time factor and enabled the use of GPU historical run time, the dynamic priority is calculated according to the following
formula:
dynamic priority = number_shares / (cpu_time * CPU_TIME_FACTOR + (historical_run_time + run_time) * RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (committed_run_time
- run_time) * COMMITTED_RUN_TIME_FACTOR + (1 + job_slots) * RUN_JOB_FACTOR + fairshare_adjustment(struct*
shareAdjustPair)*FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR) + ((historical_gpu_run_time + gpu_run_time) * ngpus_physical) * GPU_RUN_TIME_FACTOR
For historical_run_time, if ENABLE_GPU_HIST_RUN_TIME is deﬁned in the lsb.params ﬁle, the historical_run_time is the same as the job's run time
(measured in hours) of ﬁnished GPU jobs, and a decay factor from time to time based on HIST_HOURS in the lsb.params ﬁle (5 hours by default).
Note that:
782    IBM Spectrum LSF

For jobs that ask for exclusive use of a GPU, gpu_run_time is the same as the job's run time and ngpus_physical is the value of the requested
ngpus_physical in the job's effective RES_REQ string.
For jobs that ask for an exclusive host (with the bsub -x option), the gpu_run_time is the same as the job's run time and ngpus_physical is the
number of GPUs on the execution host.
For jobs that ask for an exclusive compute unit (bsub -R "cu[excl]" option), the gpu_run_time is the same as the job's run time and
ngpus_physical is the number of GPUs or all the execution hosts in the compute unit.
For jobs that ask for shared mode GPUs, these jobs do not contribute to dynamic user priority calculations. They do not get charged for fair
sharing.
The gpu_run_timevalue is the run time requested at GPU job submission with the -gpu option of bsub, the queue or application proﬁle conﬁguration
with the GPU_REQ parameter, or the cluster conﬁguration with the LSB_GPU_REQ parameter.
Re-sizable jobs and fair share
Re-sizable jobs submitting into fair share queues or host partitions are subject to fair share scheduling policies. The dynamic priority of the user who
submitted the job is the most important criterion. LSF treats pending resize allocation requests as a regular job and enforces the fair share user
priority policy to schedule them.
The dynamic priority of users depends on the following:
Their share assignment
The slots their jobs are currently consuming
The resources their jobs consumed in the past
The adjustment made by the fair share plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*)
Re-sizable job allocation changes affect the user priority calculation if the RUN_JOB_FACTOR or FAIRSHARE_ADJUSTMENT_FACTOR is greater than
zero. Resize add requests increase number of slots in use and decrease user priority. Resize release requests decrease number of slots in use, and
increase user priority. The faster a re-sizable job grows, the lower the user priority is, the less likely a pending allocation request can get more slots.
Note: The effect of re-sizable job allocation changes when the Fairshare_adjustment_factor is greater than zero, and depends on the user-
deﬁned fair share adjustment plug-in (libfairshareadjust.*).
After job allocation changes, running the bqueues and bhpart display updated user priority.
Job count based fair share scheduling
Job count based fair share scheduling uses the number of jobs in the fair share scheduling algorithm instead of the number of job slots.
You can potentially use job count based fair share scheduling if you set up a queue to run one job per host. In this situation, a job can use the entire
job slots, memory, or other resources that are available in the host. Therefore, only the number of jobs that a user is running is under consideration
for the fair share scheduling algorithm instead of job slots because each job can use all the job slots on a host.
The FAIRSHARE_JOB_COUNT parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle conﬁgures job count based fair share scheduling. If this parameter is set to Y or y, LSF
uses the number of jobs in the fair share scheduling algorithm instead of job slots. This setting only affects the value that is multiplied by the job slots
weighting factor in the fair share algorithm (RUN_JOB_FACTOR parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle).
Job checkpoint and restart
Optimize resource usage with job checkpoint and restart to stop jobs and then restart them from the point at which they stopped.
LSF can periodically capture the state of a running job and the data required to restart it. This feature provides fault tolerance and allows LSF
administrators and users to migrate jobs from one host to another to achieve load balancing.
About job checkpoint and restart
 Checkpointing enables LSF users to restart a job on the same execution host or to migrate a job to a different execution host. LSF controls
checkpointing and restart by means of interfaces named echkpnt and erestart.
Conﬁguration to enable job checkpoint and restart
 The job checkpoint and restart feature requires that a job be made checkpoint-able at the job or queue level. LSF users can make jobs
checkpoint-able by submitting jobs using bsub -k and specifying a checkpoint directory. Queue administrators can make all jobs in a queue
checkpoint-able by specifying a checkpoint directory for the queue.
Job checkpoint and restart behavior
 LSF invokes the echkpnt interface when a job meets these conditions:
Conﬁguration to modify job checkpoint and restart
 There are conﬁguration parameters that modify various aspects of job checkpoint and restart behavior by:
Job checkpoint and restart commands
 
IBM Spectrum LSF 783

About job checkpoint and restart
Checkpointing enables LSF users to restart a job on the same execution host or to migrate a job to a different execution host. LSF controls
checkpointing and restart by means of interfaces named echkpnt and erestart.
When LSF checkpoints a job, the echkpnt interface creates a checkpoint ﬁle in the directory checkpoint_dir/job_ID, and then checkpoints and
resumes the job. The job continues to run, even if checkpointing fails.
When LSF restarts a stopped job, the erestart interface recovers job state information from the checkpoint ﬁle, including information about the
execution environment, and restarts the job from the point at which the job stopped. At job restart, LSF
1. Resubmits the job to its original queue and assigns a new job ID
2. Dispatches the job when a suitable host becomes available (not necessarily the original execution host)
3. Re-creates the execution environment based on information from the checkpoint ﬁle
4. Restarts the job from its most recent checkpoint
Default behavior (job checkpoint and restart not enabled)
With job checkpoint and restart enabled
Application-level checkpoint and restart
Different applications have different checkpointing implementations that require the use of customized external executables (echkpnt.application
and erestart.application). Application-level checkpoint and restart enables you to conﬁgure LSF to use speciﬁc echkpnt.application and
erestart.application executables for a job, queue, or cluster. You can write customized checkpoint and restart executables for each application that
you use.
LSF uses a combination of corresponding checkpoint and restart executables. For example, if you use echkpnt.fluent to checkpoint a particular job,
LSF will use erestart.fluent to restart the checkpointed job. You cannot override this behavior or conﬁgure LSF to use a speciﬁc restart executable.
Scope
Applicability Details
784    IBM Spectrum LSF

Applicability Details
Job types Non-interactive batch jobs submitted with bsub or bmod
Non-interactive batch jobs, including chunk jobs, checkpointed with bchkpnt
Non-interactive batch jobs migrated with bmig
Non-interactive batch jobs restarted with brestart
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster, or the correct type of account mapping must be
enabled.
For a mixed UNIX/Windows cluster, UNIX/Windows user account mapping must be enabled.
For a cluster with a non-uniform user name space, between-host account mapping must be enabled.
For a MultiCluster environment with a non-uniform user name space, cross-cluster user account mapping must be
enabled.
The checkpoint and restart executables run under the user account of the user who submits the job. User accounts must
have the correct permissions to
Successfully run executables located in LSF_SERVERDIR or LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR
Write to the checkpoint directory
The erestart.application executable must have access to the original command line used to submit the job.
To allow restart of a checkpointed job on a different host than the host on which the job originally ran, both the original
and the new hosts must:
Be binary compatible
Have network connectivity and read/execute permissions to the checkpoint and restart executables (in
LSF_SERVERDIR by default)
Have network connectivity and read/write permissions to the checkpoint directory and the checkpoint ﬁle
Have access to all ﬁles open during job execution so that LSF can locate them using an absolute path name
Limitations bmod cannot change the echkpnt and erestart executables associated with a job.
Linux 32, AIX, and HP platforms with NFS (network ﬁle systems), checkpoint directories (including path and ﬁle name)
must be shorter than 1000 characters.
Linux 64 with NFS (network ﬁle systems), checkpoint directories (including path and ﬁle name) must be shorter than 2000
characters.
Conﬁguration to enable job checkpoint and restart
The job checkpoint and restart feature requires that a job be made checkpoint-able at the job or queue level. LSF users can make jobs checkpoint-
able by submitting jobs using bsub -k and specifying a checkpoint directory. Queue administrators can make all jobs in a queue checkpoint-able by
specifying a checkpoint directory for the queue.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
IBM Spectrum LSF 785

Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsb.queues CHKPNT=chkpnt
_dir
[chkpnt_period]All jobs submitted to the queue are checkpointable. LSF writes the checkpoint ﬁles, which contain job
state information, to the checkpoint directory. The checkpoint directory can contain checkpoint ﬁles for
multiple jobs.
The speciﬁed checkpoint directory must already exist. LSF will not create the checkpoint
directory.
The user account that submits the job must have read and write permissions for the checkpoint
directory.
For the job to restart on another execution host, both the original and new hosts must have
network connectivity to the checkpoint directory.
If the queue administrator speciﬁes a checkpoint period, in minutes, LSF creates a checkpoint ﬁle every
chkpnt_period during job execution.
Note:
There is no default value for checkpoint period. You must specify a checkpoint period if you want to
enable periodic checkpointing.
If a user speciﬁes a checkpoint directory and checkpoint period at the job level with bsub -k, the job-
level values override the queue-level values.
The ﬁle path of the checkpoint directory can contain up to 4000 characters for UNIX and Linux, or up to
255 characters for Windows, including the directory and ﬁle name.
lsb.applications
Conﬁguration to enable kernel-level checkpoint and restart
Kernel-level checkpoint and restart is enabled by default. LSF users make a job checkpointable by either submitting a job using bsub -k and
specifying a checkpoint directory or by submitting a job to a queue that deﬁnes a checkpoint directory for the CHKPNT parameter.
Conﬁguration to enable application-level checkpoint and restart
Application-level checkpointing requires the presence of at least one echkpnt.application executable in the directory speciﬁed by the parameter
LSF_SERVERDIR in lsf.conf. Each echkpnt.application must have a corresponding erestart.application.
Important:
The erestart.application executable must:
Have access to the command line used to submit or modify the job
Exit with a return value without running an application; the erestart interface runs the application to restart the job
Executable ﬁle UNIX naming convention Windows naming convention
echkpnt LSF_SERVERDIR/echkpnt.applicationLSF_SERVERDIR\echkpnt.application.exe
LSF_SERVERDIR\echkpnt.application.bat
erestart LSF_SERVERDIR/erestart.applicationLSF_SERVERDIR\erestart.application.exe
LSF_SERVERDIR\erestart.application.bat
Restriction:
The names echkpnt.default and erestart.default are reserved. Do not use these names for application-level checkpoint and restart executables.
Valid ﬁle names contain only alphanumeric characters, underscores (_), and hyphens (-).
For application-level checkpoint and restart, once the LSF_SERVERDIR contains one or more checkpoint and restart executables, users can specify
the external checkpoint executable associated with each checkpointable job they submit. At restart, LSF invokes the corresponding external restart
executable.
Requirements for application-level checkpoint and restart executables
The executables must be written in C or Fortran.
The directory/name combinations must be unique within the cluster. For example, you can write two different checkpoint executables with the
name echkpnt.fluent and save them as LSF_SERVERDIR/echkpnt.fluent and my_execs/echkpnt.fluent. To run checkpoint and restart
executables from a directory other than LSF_SERVERDIR, you must conﬁgure the parameter LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR in lsf.conf.
Your executables must return the following values.
786    IBM Spectrum LSF

An echkpnt.application must return a value of 0 when checkpointing succeeds and a non-zero value when checkpointing fails.
The erestart interface provided with LSF restarts the job using a restart command that erestart.application writes to a ﬁle. The return
value indicates whether erestart.application successfully writes the parameter deﬁnition LSB_RESTART_CMD=restart_command to the
ﬁle checkpoint_dir/job_ID/.restart_cmd.
A non-zero value indicates that erestart.application failed to write to the .restart_cmd ﬁle.
A return value of 0 indicates that erestart.application successfully wrote to the .restart_cmd ﬁle, or that the executable
intentionally did not write to the ﬁle.
Your executables must recognize the syntax used by the echkpnt and erestart interfaces, which communicate with your executables by
means of a common syntax.
echkpnt.application syntax:
echkpnt [-c] [-f] [-k | -s] [-d checkpoint_dir] [-x] process_group_ID 
Restriction:
The -k and -s options are mutually exclusive.
erestart.application syntax:
erestart [-c] [-f] checkpoint_dir 
Option or
variableDescriptionOperating
systems
-c Copies all ﬁles in use by the checkpointed process to the checkpoint directory. Some
-f Forces a job to be checkpointed even under non-checkpointable conditions, which are speciﬁc to the
checkpoint implementation used. This option could create checkpoint ﬁles that do not provide for
successful restart.Some
-k Kills a job after successful checkpointing. If checkpoint fails, the job continues to run. All operating
systems that LSF
supports
-s Stops a job after successful checkpointing. If checkpoint fails, the job continues to run. Some
-d
checkpoint_dirSpeciﬁes the checkpoint directory as a relative or absolute path. All operating
systems that LSF
supports
-x Identiﬁes the cpr (checkpoint and restart) process as type HID. This identiﬁes the set of processes to
checkpoint as a process hierarchy (tree) rooted at the current PID.Some
process_group_I
DID of the process or process group to checkpoint. All operating
systems that LSF
supports
Job checkpoint and restart behavior
LSF invokes the echkpnt interface when a job meets these conditions:
Automatically check-pointed based on a conﬁgured checkpoint period
Manually check-pointed with bchkpnt
Migrated to a new host with bmig
After checkpointing, LSF invokes the erestart interface to restart the job. LSF also invokes the erestart interface when a user
Manually restarts a job using brestart
Migrates the job to a new host using bmig
All checkpoint and restart executables run under the user account of the user who submits the job.
Note: By default, LSF redirects standard error and standard output to /dev/null and discards the data.
Checkpoint directory and ﬁles
LSF identiﬁes checkpoint ﬁles by the checkpoint directory and job ID. For example:
bsub -k my_dir 
Job <123> is submitted to default queue <default>
LSF writes the checkpoint ﬁle to my_dir/123.
IBM Spectrum LSF 787

LSF maintains all of the checkpoint ﬁles for a single job in one location. When a job restarts, LSF creates both a new subdirectory based on the new
job ID and a symbolic link from the old to the new directory. For example, when job 123 restarts on a new host as job 456, LSF creates my_dir/456
and a symbolic link from my_dir/123 to my_dir/456.
The ﬁle path of the checkpoint directory can contain up to 4000 characters for UNIX and Linux, or up to 255 characters for Windows, including the
directory and ﬁle name.
Precedence of job, queue, application, and cluster-level checkpoint values
LSF handles checkpoint and restart values as follows:
1. Checkpoint directory and checkpoint period—values speciﬁed at the job level override values for the queue. Values speciﬁed in an application
proﬁle setting overrides queue level conﬁguration.
If checkpoint-related conﬁguration is speciﬁed in the queue, application proﬁle, and at job level:
Application-level and job-level parameters are merged. If the same parameter is deﬁned at both job-level and in the application proﬁle,
the job-level value overrides the application proﬁle value.
The merged result of job-level and application proﬁle settings override queue-level conﬁguration.
2. Checkpoint and restart executables—the value for checkpoint_method speciﬁed at the job level overrides the application-level
CHKPNT_METHOD, and the cluster-level value for LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD speciﬁed in lsf.conf or as an environment variable.
3. Conﬁguration parameters and environment variables—values speciﬁed as environment variables override the values speciﬁed in lsf.conf
If the command line is… And… Then…
bsub -k "my_dir 240" In lsb.queues,
CHKPNT=other_dir 360 LSF saves the checkpoint ﬁle to my_dir/job_ID every 240 minutes
bsub -k "my_dir
fluent"In lsf.conf,
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD=myap
p LSF invokes echkpnt.fluent at job checkpoint and erestart.fluent at job
restart
bsub -k "my_dir" In lsb.applications,
CHKPNT_PERIOD=360 LSF saves the checkpoint ﬁle to my_dir/job_ID every 360 minutes
bsub -k "240" In lsb.applications,
CHKPNT_DIR=app_dir 
CHKPNT_PERIOD=360 
In lsb.queues,
CHKPNT=other_dir LSF saves the checkpoint ﬁle to app_dir/job_ID every 240 minutes
Conﬁguration to modify job checkpoint and restart
There are conﬁguration parameters that modify various aspects of job checkpoint and restart behavior by:
Specifying mandatory application-level checkpoint and restart executables that apply to all checkpoint-able batch jobs in the cluster
Specifying the directory that contains customized application-level checkpoint and restart executables
Saving standard output and standard error to ﬁles in the checkpoint directory
Automatically checkpointing jobs before suspending or terminating them
For Cray systems only, copying all open job ﬁles to the checkpoint directory
Conﬁguration to specify mandatory application-level executables
You can specify mandatory checkpoint and restart executables by deﬁning the parameter LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD in lsf.conf or as an environment
variable.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsf.conf LSB_ECHKPNT_M
ETHOD=
"echkpnt_applicat
ion"The speciﬁed echkpnt runs for all batch jobs submitted to the cluster. At restart, the corresponding
erestart runs.
For example, if LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD=fluent, at checkpoint, LSF runs echkpnt.fluent and at
restart, LSF runs erestart.fluent.
If an LSF user speciﬁes a different echkpnt_application at the job level using bsub -k or bmod -k, the
job level value overrides the value in lsf.conf.
788    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration to specify the directory for application-level executables
By default, LSF looks for application-level checkpoint and restart executables in LSF_SERVERDIR. You can modify this behavior by specifying a
different directory as an environment variable or in lsf.conf.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
lsf.conf LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_
DIR=pathSpeciﬁes the absolute path to the directory that contains the echkpnt.application and
erestart.application executables
User accounts that run these executables must have the correct permissions for the
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR directory.
Conﬁguration to save standard output and standard error
By default, LSF redirects the standard output and standard error from checkpoint and restart executables to /dev/null and discards the data. You can
modify this behavior by deﬁning the parameter LSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT as an environment variable or in lsf.conf.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
lsf.conf LSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT
=Y | yThe stdout and stderr for echkpnt.application or echkpnt.default are redirected to
checkpoint_dir/job_ID/
echkpnt.out
echkpnt.err
The stdout and stderr for erestart.application or erestart.default are redirected to
checkpoint_dir/job_ID/
erestart.out
erestart.err
Conﬁguration to checkpoint jobs before suspending or terminating them
LSF administrators can conﬁgure LSF at the queue level to checkpoint jobs before suspending or terminating them.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and syntax Behavior
lsb.queues JOB_CONTROLS=SUSPEND CHKPNT
TERMINATELSF checkpoints jobs before suspending or terminating them
When suspending a job, LSF checkpoints the job and then stops it by sending
the SIGSTOP signal
When terminating a job, LSF checkpoints the job and then kills it
Conﬁguration to copy open job ﬁles to the checkpoint directory
For hosts that use the Cray operating system, LSF administrators can conﬁgure LSF at the host level to copy all open job ﬁles to the checkpoint
directory every time the job is checkpointed.
Conﬁguration ﬁle Parameter and syntax Behavior
lsb.hosts HOST_NAME     CHKPNT 
host_name        C LSF copies all open job ﬁles to the checkpoint directory when a job is checkpointed
Job checkpoint and restart commands
Commands for submission
Command Description
IBM Spectrum LSF 789

Command Description
bsub -k "checkpoint_dir
[checkpoint_period]
[method=echkpnt_application
]"Speciﬁes a relative or absolute path for the checkpoint directory and makes the job checkpointable.
If the speciﬁed checkpoint directory does not already exist, LSF creates the checkpoint directory.
If a user speciﬁes a checkpoint period (in minutes), LSF creates a checkpoint ﬁle every chkpnt_period during
job execution.
The command-line values for the checkpoint directory and checkpoint period override the values speciﬁed
for the queue.
If a user speciﬁes an echkpnt_application, LSF runs the corresponding restart executable when the job
restarts. For example, for bsub -k "my_dir method=fluent" LSF runs echkpnt.fluent at job checkpoint
and erestart.fluent at job restart.
The command-line value for echkpnt_application overrides the value speciﬁed by LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD
in lsf.conf or as an environment variable. Users can override LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD and use the default
checkpoint and restart executables by deﬁning method=default.
Commands to monitor
Command Description
bacct -l Displays accounting statistics for ﬁnished jobs, including termination reasons. TERM_CHKPNT indicates that a job was
checkpointed and killed.
If JOB_CONTROL is deﬁned for a queue, LSF does not display the result of the action.
bhist -l Displays the actions that LSF took on a completed job, including job checkpoint, restart, and migration to another host.
bjobs -l Displays information about pending, running, and suspended jobs, including the checkpoint directory, the checkpoint
period, and the checkpoint method (either application or default).
Commands to control
Command Description
bmod -k "checkpoint_dir [checkpoint_period]
[method=echkpnt_application]"Resubmits a job and changes the checkpoint directory, checkpoint period, and the
checkpoint and restart executables associated with the job.
bmod -kn Dissociates the checkpoint directory from a job, which makes the job no longer
checkpointable.
bchkpnt Checkpoints the most recently submitted checkpointable job. Users can specify particular
jobs to checkpoint by including various bchkpnt options.
bchkpnt -p checkpoint_period job_ID Checkpoints a job immediately and changes the checkpoint period for the job.
bchkpnt -k job_ID Checkpoints a job immediately and kills the job.
bchkpnt -p 0 job_ID Checkpoints a job immediately and disables periodic checkpointing.
brestart Restarts a checkpointed job on the ﬁrst available host.
brestart -m Restarts a checkpointed job on the speciﬁed host or host group.
bmig Migrates one or more running jobs from one host to another. The jobs must be
checkpointable or rerunnable.
Checkpoints, kills, and restarts one or more checkpointable jobs.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
790    IBM Spectrum LSF

Command Description
bqueues -l Displays information about queues conﬁgured in lsb.queues, including the values deﬁned for checkpoint directory and
checkpoint period.
Note:
The bqueues command displays the checkpoint period in seconds; the lsb.queues CHKPNT parameter deﬁnes the
checkpoint period in minutes.
badmin
showconfDisplays all conﬁgured parameters and their values set in lsf.conf or ego.conf that affect mbatchd and sbatchd.
Use a text editor to view other parameters in the lsf.conf or ego.conf conﬁguration ﬁles.
In a MultiCluster environment, displays the parameters of daemons on the local cluster.
Job migration for checkpoint-able and re-runnable jobs
Use job migration to move checkpoint-able and re-runnable jobs from one host to another. Job migration makes use of job checkpoint and restart so
that a migrated checkpoint-able job restarts on the new host from the point at which the job stopped on the original host.
Job migration refers to the process of moving a checkpoint-able or re-runnable job from one host to another. This facilitates load balancing by
moving jobs from a heavily-loaded host to a lightly-loaded host.
You can initiate job migration on demand (bmig) or automatically. To initiate job migration automatically, you conﬁgure a migration threshold at job
submission, or at the host, queue, or application level.
Default behavior (job migration not enabled)
With automatic job migration enabled
Scope
IBM Spectrum LSF 791

Applicability Details
Operating
systemUNIX
Linux
Windows
Job types Non-interactive batch jobs submitted with bsub or bmod, including chunk jobs
Dependencies UNIX and Windows user accounts must be valid on all hosts in the cluster, or the correct type of account mapping must be
enabled:
For a mixed UNIX/Windows cluster, UNIX/Windows user account mapping must be enabled
For a cluster with a non-uniform user name space, between-host account mapping must be enabled
For a MultiCluster environment with a non-uniform user name space, cross-cluster user account mapping must be
enabled
Both the original and the new hosts must:
Be binary compatible
Run the same dot version of the operating system for predictable results
Have network connectivity and read/execute permissions to the checkpoint and restart executables (in
LSF_SERVERDIR by default)
Have network connectivity and read/write permissions to the checkpoint directory and the checkpoint ﬁle
Have access to all ﬁles open during job execution so that LSF can locate them using an absolute path name
Job migration behavior
 LSF migrates a job by performing the following actions:
Conﬁguration to enable job migration
 The job migration feature requires that a job be made checkpoint-able or re-runnable at the job, application, or queue level.
Conﬁguration to modify job migration
 You can conﬁgure LSF to requeue a migrating job rather than restart or rerun the job.
Job migration commands
 
Job migration behavior
LSF migrates a job by performing the following actions:
1. Stops the job if it is running
2. Checkpoints the job if the job is checkpoint-able
3. Kills the job on the current host
4. Restarts or reruns the job on the ﬁrst available host, bypassing all pending jobs
Conﬁguration to enable job migration
The job migration feature requires that a job be made checkpoint-able or re-runnable at the job, application, or queue level.
An LSF user can make a job
Checkpoint-able, using bsub -k and specifying a checkpoint directory and checkpoint period, and an optional initial checkpoint period
Re-runnable, using bsub -r
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
792    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsb.queues CHKPNT=chkpnt_
dir
[chkpnt_period]All jobs submitted to the queue are checkpointable.
The speciﬁed checkpoint directory must already exist. LSF will not create the checkpoint
directory.
The user account that submits the job must have read and write permissions for the checkpoint
directory.
For the job to restart on another execution host, both the original and new hosts must have
network connectivity to the checkpoint directory.
If the queue administrator speciﬁes a checkpoint period, in minutes, LSF creates a checkpoint ﬁle
every chkpnt_period during job execution.
If a user speciﬁes a checkpoint directory and checkpoint period at the job level with bsub -k, the job-
level values override the queue-level values.
RERUNNABLE=Y If the execution host becomes unavailable, LSF reruns the job from the beginning on a different host.
lsb.applicationsCHKPNT_DIR=ch
kpnt_dirSpeciﬁes the checkpoint directory for automatic checkpointing for the application. To enable
automatic checkpoint for the application proﬁle, administrators must specify a checkpoint directory in
the conﬁguration of the application proﬁle.
If CHKPNT_PERIOD, CHKPNT_INITPERIOD or CHKPNT_METHOD was set in an application proﬁle but
CHKPNT_DIR was not set, a warning message is issued and those settings are ignored.
The checkpoint directory is the directory where the checkpoint ﬁles are created. Specify an absolute
path or a path relative to the current working directory for the job. Do not use environment variables in
the directory path.
If checkpoint-related conﬁguration is speciﬁed in both the queue and an application proﬁle, the
application proﬁle setting overrides queue level conﬁguration.
CHKPNT_INITPE
RIOD=init_chkpnt
_period
CHKPNT_PERIOD
=chkpnt_period
CHKPNT_METHO
D=chkpnt_metho
d
Conﬁguration to enable automatic job migration
Automatic job migration assumes that if a job is system-suspended (SSUSP) for an extended period of time, the execution host is probably heavily
loaded. Conﬁguring a queue-level or host-level migration threshold lets the job to resume on another less loaded host, and reduces the load on the
original host. You can use bmig at any time to override a conﬁgured migration threshold.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsb.queues
lsb.applicationsMIG=minutes LSF automatically migrates jobs that have been in the SSUSP state for more than the speciﬁed number
of minutes
Specify a value of 0 to migrate jobs immediately upon suspension
Applies to all jobs submitted to the queue
Job-level command-line migration threshold (bsub -mig) overrides threshold conﬁguration in
application proﬁle and queue. Application proﬁle conﬁguration overrides queue level conﬁguration.
lsb.hosts HOST_NAME     
MIG 
host_name     
minutes LSF automatically migrates jobs that have been in the SSUSP state for more than the speciﬁed number
of minutes
Specify a value of 0 to migrate jobs immediately upon suspension
Applies to all jobs running on the host
Note: When a host migration threshold is speciﬁed, and is lower than the value for the job, the queue, or the application, the host value is used. You
cannot auto-migrate a suspended chunk job member.
IBM Spectrum LSF 793

Conﬁguration to modify job migration
You can conﬁgure LSF to requeue a migrating job rather than restart or rerun the job.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsf.conf LSB_MIG2PEND=1 LSF re-queues a migrating job rather than restarting or rerunning the job
LSF re-queues the job as pending in order of the original submission time and priority
In a multicluster environment, LSF ignores this parameter
LSB_REQUEUE_TO_B
OTTOM=1When LSB_MIG2PEND=1, LSF re-queues a migrating job to the bottom of the queue, regardless of
the original submission time and priority
If the queue deﬁnes APS scheduling, migrated jobs keep their APS information and compete with
other pending jobs based on the APS value
Checkpointing re-sizable jobs
After a checkpoint-able re-sizable job restarts (brestart), LSF restores the original job allocation request. LSF also restores job-level autoresizable
attribute and notiﬁcation command if they are speciﬁed at job submission.
Example
The following example shows a queue conﬁgured for periodic checkpointing in lsb.queues:
Begin Queue 
... 
QUEUE_NAME=checkpoint 
CHKPNT=mydir 240 
DESCRIPTION=Automatically checkpoints jobs every 4 hours to mydir 
... 
End Queue
Note: The bqueues command displays the checkpoint period in seconds; the lsb.queues CHKPNT parameter deﬁnes the checkpoint period in
minutes.
If the command bchkpnt -k 123 is used to checkpoint and kill job 123, you can restart the job using the brestart command as shown in the following
example:
brestart -q priority mydir 123
Job <456> is submitted to queue <priority>
LSF assigns a new job ID of 456, submits the job to the queue named "priority," and restarts the job.
Once job 456 is running, you can change the checkpoint period using the bchkpnt command:
bchkpnt -p 360 456
Job <456> is being checkpointed
Job migration commands
Commands for submission
Job migration applies to checkpoint-able or re-runnable jobs submitted with a migration threshold, or that have already started and are either
running or suspended.
Command Description
bsub -mig
migration_thres
holdSubmits the job with the speciﬁed migration threshold for checkpoint-able or re-runnable jobs. Enables automatic job
migration and speciﬁes the migration threshold, in minutes. A value of 0 (zero) speciﬁes that a suspended job should be
migrated immediately.
Command-level job migration threshold overrides application proﬁle and queue-level settings.
Where a host migration threshold is also speciﬁed, and is lower than the job value, the host value is used.
794    IBM Spectrum LSF

Commands to monitor
Command Description
bhist -l Displays the actions that LSF took on a completed job, including migration to another host
bjobs -l Displays information about pending, running, and suspended jobs
Commands to control
Command Description
bmig Migrates one or more running jobs from one host to another. The jobs must be checkpoint-able or re-runnable
Checkpoints, kills, and restarts one or more checkpoint-able jobs. bmig combines the functionality of the bchkpnt and
brestart commands into a single command
Migrates the job on demand even if you have conﬁgured queue-level or host-level migration thresholds
When absolute job priority scheduling (APS) is conﬁgured in the queue, LSF schedules migrated jobs before pending jobs.
For migrated jobs, LSF maintains the existing job priority.
bmod -mig
migration_thres
hold | -mignModiﬁes or cancels the migration threshold speciﬁed at job submission for checkpoint-able or re-runnable jobs. Enables
or disables automatic job migration and speciﬁes the migration threshold, in minutes. A value of 0 (zero) speciﬁes that a
suspended job should be migrated immediately.
Command-level job migration threshold overrides application proﬁle and queue-level settings.
Where a host migration threshold is also speciﬁed, and is lower than the job value, the host value is used.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
bhosts -l Displays information about hosts conﬁgured in lsb.hosts, including the values deﬁned for migration thresholds in minutes
bqueues -l Displays information about queues conﬁgured in lsb.queues, including the values deﬁned for migration thresholds
Note: The bqueues command displays the migration threshold in seconds—the lsb.queues MIG parameter deﬁnes the
migration threshold in minutes.
badmin
showconfDisplays all conﬁgured parameters and their values set in lsf.conf or ego.conf that affect mbatchd and sbatchd.
Use a text editor to view other parameters in the lsf.conf or ego.conf conﬁguration ﬁles.
In a multicluster environment, displays the parameters of daemons on the local cluster.
Re-sizable jobs
Re-sizable jobs can use the number of tasks that are available at any time and can grow or shrink during the job run time by requesting extra tasks if
required or release tasks that are no longer needed.
Re-sizable job behavior
 To optimize resource utilization, LSF allows the job allocation to shrink or grow during the job run time.
Conﬁguration to enable re-sizable jobs
 Re-sizable job commands
 Re-sizable job management
 Submit and manage re-sizable jobs.
Specifying a resize notiﬁcation command manually
 Script for resizing
 How re-sizable jobs work with other LSF features
 Re-sizable jobs behave differently when used together with other LSF features.
Re-sizable job behavior
To optimize resource utilization, LSF allows the job allocation to shrink or grow during the job run time.
IBM Spectrum LSF 795

Use re-sizable jobs for long-tailed jobs, which are jobs that use many resources for a period, but use fewer resources toward the end of the job.
Conversely, use re-sizable jobs for jobs in which tasks are easily parallelizable, where each step or task can be made to run on a separate processor
to achieve a faster result. The more resources the job gets, the faster the job can run. Session Scheduler jobs are good candidates.
Without re-sizable jobs, a job’s task allocation is static from the time the job is dispatched until it ﬁnishes. For long-tailed jobs, resources are wasted
toward the end of the job, even if you use reservation and backﬁll because estimated run times can be inaccurate. Parallel run slower than they could
run if there were more assigned tasks. With re-sizable jobs, LSF can remove tasks from long-tailed jobs when the tasks are no longer needed, or add
extra tasks to parallel jobs when needed during the job’s run time.
Automatic or manual resizing
An automatically re-sizable job is a re-sizable job with a minimum and maximum task request, where LSF automatically schedules and allocates
more resources to satisfy the job maximum request as the job runs. Specify an automatically re-sizable job at job submission time by using the bsub
-ar option.
For automatically re-sizable jobs, LSF automatically recalculates the pending allocation requests. LSF is able to allocate more tasks to the running
job. For instance, if a job requests a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 32, and LSF initially allocates 20 tasks to the job initially, its active pending
allocation request is for another 12 tasks. After LSF assigns another four tasks, the pending allocation request is now eight tasks.
You can also manually shrink or grow a running job by using the bresize command. Shrink a job by releasing tasks from the speciﬁed hosts with the
bresize release subcommand. Grow a job by requesting more tasks with the bresize request subcommand.
Pending allocation request
A pending allocation request is an extra resource request that is attached to a re-sizable job. Running jobs are the only jobs that can have pending
allocation requests. At any time, a job has only one allocation request.
LSF creates a new pending allocation request and schedules it after a job physically starts on the remote host (after LSF receives the JOB_EXECUTE
event from the sbatchd daemon) or resize notiﬁcation command successfully completes.
Resize notiﬁcation command
A resize notiﬁcation command is an executable that is invoked on the ﬁrst execution host of a job in response to an allocation (grow or shrink) event.
It can be used to inform the running application for allocation change. Due to the variety of implementations of applications, each re-sizable
application might have its own notiﬁcation command that is provided by the application developer.
The notiﬁcation command runs under the same user ID environment, home, and working directory as the actual job. The standard input, output, and
error of the program are redirected to the NULL device. If the notiﬁcation command is not in the user's normal execution path (the $PATH variable),
the full path name of the command must be speciﬁed.
A notiﬁcation command exits with one of the following values:
LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_OK
LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_FAIL
LSF sets these environment variables in the notiﬁcation command environment. The LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_OK value indicates that the notiﬁcation
succeeds. For allocation grow and shrink events, LSF updates the job allocation to reflect the new allocation.
The LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_FAIL value indicates notiﬁcation failure. For allocation "grow" event, LSF reschedules the pending allocation request. For
allocation "shrink" event, LSF fails the allocation release request.
For a list of other environment variables that apply to the resize notiﬁcation command, see the environment variables reference.
Conﬁguration to enable re-sizable jobs
The re-sizable jobs feature is enabled by deﬁning an application proﬁle using the RESIZABLE_JOBS parameter in lsb.applications.
Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
lsb.applicationsRESIZABLE_JOB
S=Y|N|autoWhen RESIZABLE_JOBS=Y jobs that are submitted to the application proﬁle are re-sizable.
When RESIZABLE_JOBS=auto jobs that are submitted to the application proﬁle are automatically re-
sizable.
To enable cluster-wide re-sizable behavior by default, deﬁne RESIZABLE_JOBS=Y in the default
application proﬁle.
The default value is RESIZABLE_JOBS=N. Jobs that are submitted to the application proﬁle are not
resizable.
796    IBM Spectrum LSF

Conﬁguration
ﬁleParameter and
syntaxBehavior
RESIZE_NOTIFY_
CMD=notify_cmdRESIZE_NOTIFY_CMD speciﬁes an application-level resize notiﬁcation command. The resize notiﬁcation
command is invoked on the ﬁrst execution host of a running resizable job when a resize event occurs.
Re-sizable job commands
Commands for submission
Command Description
bsub -app
application_proﬁle_nam
eSubmits the job to the speciﬁed application proﬁle conﬁgured for re-sizable jobs
bsub -app
application_proﬁle_nam
e -rnc
resize_notiﬁcation_comm
andSubmits the job to the speciﬁed application proﬁle conﬁgured for re-sizable jobs, with the speciﬁed resize notiﬁcation
command. The job-level resize notiﬁcation command overrides the application-level RESIZE_NOTIFY_CMD setting.
bsub -ar -app
application_proﬁle_nam
eSubmits the job to the speciﬁed application proﬁle conﬁgured for re-sizable jobs, as an automatically re-sizable job. The
job-level -ar option overrides the application-level RESIZABLE_JOBS setting. For example, if the application proﬁle is
not automatically re-sizable, job level bsub -ar will make the job automatically re-sizable.
Commands to monitor
Command Description
bacct -l Displays resize notiﬁcation command.
Displays resize allocation changes.
bhist -l Displays resize notiﬁcation command.
Displays resize allocation changes.
Displays the job-level automatically re-sizable attribute.
bjobs -l Displays resize notiﬁcation command.
Displays resize allocation changes.
Displays the job-level automatically re-sizable attribute.
Displays pending resize allocation requests.
Commands to control
Command Description
bmod -ar | -arnAdd or remove the job-level autoresizable attribute. bmod only updates the autoresizable attribute for pending jobs.
bmod -rnc
resize_notiﬁcati
on_cmd | -rncnModify or remove resize notiﬁcation command for submitted job.
IBM Spectrum LSF 797

Command Description
bresize
subcommandDecrease or increase tasks that are allocated to a running resizable job, or cancel pending job resize allocation requests.
Use the bresize release command to explicitly release tasks from a running job. When you release tasks from an allocation, a
minimum of one task on the ﬁrst execution host must be retained. Only hosts (and not host groups or compute units) can be
released by using the bresize release command. When you release tasks from compound resource requirements, you can
release only tasks that are represented by the last term of the compound resource requirement. To release tasks in earlier terms,
run bresize release repeatedly to release tasks in subsequent last terms.
Use the bresize request command to trigger a manual request for additional allocated tasks. LSF pends the request if the queue
cannot meet the minimum tasks request or if the request is over the TASKLIMIT value for the queue or application proﬁle.
Changing the TASKLIMIT value does not affect any requests that are already accepted. For compound resource requirements,
the request only applies to the last term. For alternative resource requirements, the request only applies to the term that was
used for the initial task allocation. For autoresizable jobs, if there is pending demand, you must ﬁrst cancel the previous pending
demand by running the brequest request -c or bresize cancel commands. After triggering this manual request, the job is no
longer autoresizable unless you requeue or rerun the job.
Use bresize cancel to cancel a pending allocation request for the speciﬁed job ID. The active pending allocation request is
generated by LSF automatically for autoresizable jobs. If the job does not have an active pending request, the command fails
with an error message.
By default, only cluster administrators, queue administrators, root, and the job owner are allowed to run bresize to change job
allocations.
User group administrators are allowed to run bresize to change the allocation of jobs within their user groups.
bresize
subcommand -
rnc
resize_notiﬁcati
on_cmdSpecify or remove a resize notiﬁcation command. The resize notiﬁcation is invoked on the job ﬁrst execution node. The resize
notiﬁcation command only applies to this request and overrides the corresponding resize notiﬁcation parameters deﬁned in
either the application proﬁle (RESIZE_NOTIFY_CMD in lsb.applications) and job level (bsub -rnc notify_cmd), only for this resize
request.
If the resize notiﬁcation command completes successfully, LSF considers the allocation resize done and updates the job
allocation. If the resize notiﬁcation command fails, LSF does not update the job allocation.
The resize_notiﬁcation_cmd speciﬁes the name of the executable to be invoked on the ﬁrst execution host when the job's
allocation has been modiﬁed.
The resize notiﬁcation command runs under the user account that submitted the job.
-rncn overrides the resize notiﬁcation command in both job-level and application-level for this bresize request.
The -rnc and -rncn options do not apply to the bresize cancel subcommand.
bresize
subcommand -cBy default, if the job has an active pending allocation request, LSF does not allow users to release or increase resources. Use the
-c option to cancel the active pending resource request when releasing or increasing tasks from existing allocation. By default,
the command only releases or increases tasks.
If a job still has an active pending allocation request, but you do not want to allocate more resources to the job, use the bresize
cancel command to cancel allocation request.
Only the job owner, cluster administrators, queue administrators, user group administrators, and root are allowed to cancel
pending resource allocation requests.
The -c option does not apply to the bresize cancel subcommand.
Commands to display conﬁguration
Command Description
bapp Displays the value of parameters deﬁned in lsb.applications.
Re-sizable job management
Submit and manage re-sizable jobs.
Submitting a re-sizable job
 Checking pending resize requests
 Canceling an active pending request
 
Submitting a re-sizable job
798    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
1. Run bsub –n 4,10 -ar -app application_proﬁle_name
LSF dispatches the job to the speciﬁed application proﬁle that is conﬁgured for re-sizable jobs (as long as the minimum task request is
satisﬁed).
After the job successfully starts, LSF continues to schedule and allocate additional resources to satisfy the maximum task request for the job.
2. (Optional, as required) Release resources that are no longer needed.
bresize release released_host_specification job_ID
where released_host_speciﬁcation is the speciﬁcation (list or range of hosts and number of tasks) of resources to be released.
For example,
bresize release "1*hostA 2*hostB hostC" 221
LSF releases 1 task on hostA, 2 tasks on hostB, and all tasks on hostC for job 221.
Result: The resize notiﬁcation command runs on the ﬁrst execution host.
3. (Optional, as required) Request additional tasks to be allocated to jobs that require more resources.
bresize request [min_tasks,] tasks job_ID
where
tasks is the total number of tasks to allocate to the jobs.
min_tasks is the minimum number of tasks to allocate to the jobs.
If min_tasks is speciﬁed, LSF pends the request until the minimum number of tasks can be added to the job, otherwise, LSF pends the request
until the full total number of tasks is available. Specifying a minimum number of tasks allows the request to grow the task allocation partially,
otherwise the request requires the entire maximum number to be allocated at once.
For example,
bresize request 10 221
This command requests a total of 10 tasks to be added to job 221. If LSF cannot add 10 tasks to the job, the request pends.
bresize request 4,10 221
This command requests a minimum of 4 and a total of 10 tasks to be added to job 221. The request pends if LSF cannot add at least 4 tasks to
the job. The request can add additional tasks up to a total of 10. Therefore, if LSF initially adds 7 tasks to the job, the remaining 3 tasks
requested remain pending.
Result: The resize notiﬁcation command runs on the ﬁrst execution host.
Checking pending resize requests
About this task
A resize request pends until the job’s maximum task request has been allocated or the job ﬁnishes (or the resize request is canceled).
Procedure
Run bjobs -l job_id.
Canceling an active pending request
Before you begin
Only the job owner, cluster administrators, queue administrators, user group administrators, and root can cancel pending resource allocation
requests.
An allocation request must be pending.
About this task
If a job still has an active pending resize request, but you do not want to allocate more resources to the job, you can cancel it.
IBM Spectrum LSF 799

By default, if the job has an active pending resize request, you cannot release the resources. You must cancel the request ﬁrst.
Procedure
Run bresize cancel.
Specifying a resize notiﬁcation command manually
About this task
You can specify a resize notiﬁcation command on job submission, other than one that is set up for the application proﬁle
Procedure
1. On job submission, run bsub -rnc resize_notification_cmd.
The job submission command overrides the application proﬁle setting.
2. Ensure the resize notiﬁcation command checks any environment variables for resizing.
For example, LSB_RESIZE_EVENT indicates why the notiﬁcation command was called (grow or shrink) and LSB_RESIZE_HOSTS lists tasks
and hosts. Use LSB_JOBID to determine which job is affected.
Results
The command that you speciﬁed runs on the ﬁrst execution host of the resized job.
LSF monitors the exit code from the command and takes appropriate action when the command returns an exit code corresponding to resize failure.
Script for resizing
#!/bin/sh 
# The purpose of this script is to inform  
# an application of a resize event.   
# 
# You can identify the application by:  
# 
#   1. LSF job ID ($LSB_JOBID), or  
#   2. pid ($LS_JOBPID). 
  
# handle the 'grow' event 
if [ $LSB_RESIZE_EVENT = "grow" ]; then 
  
    # Inform the application that it can use  
    # additional tasks as specified in  
    # $LSB_RESIZE_HOSTS.  
    # 
    # Exit with $LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_FAIL if  
    # the application fails to resize. 
    # 
    # If the application cannot use any 
    # additional resources, you may want  
    # to run ‘bresize cancel $LSB_JOBID’ 
    # before exit. 
  
    exit $LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_OK 
fi 
  
# handle the 'shrink' event 
if [ $LSB_RESIZE_EVENT = "shrink" ]; then 
  
    # Instruct the application to release the 
    # tasks specified in $LSB_RESIZE_HOSTS. 
    # 
    # Exit with $LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_FAIL if  
    # the resources cannot be released. 
     
    exit $LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_OK 
fi 
  
# unknown event -- should not happen 
exit $LSB_RESIZE_NOTIFY_FAIL
800    IBM Spectrum LSF

How re-sizable jobs work with other LSF features
Re-sizable jobs behave differently when used together with other LSF features.
Resource usage
When a job grows or shrinks, its resource reservation (for example memory or shared resources) changes proportionately.
Job-based resource usage does not change in grow or shrink operations.
Host-based resource usage changes only when the job gains tasks on a new host or releases all tasks on a host.
Task-based resource usage changes whenever the job grows or shrinks.
Limits
Tasks are only added to a job's allocation when resize occurs if the job does not violate any resource limits placed on it.
Job scheduling and dispatch
The JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL parameter in lsb.params or lsb.queues controls the number of seconds to wait after dispatching a job to a host
before dispatching a second job to the same host. The parameter applies to all allocated hosts of a parallel job. For re-sizable job allocation
requests, JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL applies to newly allocated hosts.
Chunk jobs
Because candidate jobs for the chunk job feature are short-running sequential jobs, the re-sizable job feature does not support job chunking:
Automatically resizable jobs in a chunk queue or application proﬁle cannot be chunked together.
bresize commands to resize job allocations do not apply to running chunk job members.
Energy aware scheduling
In the case that a job is resizable, bjobs can only get the energy cost of the latest re-sizable job's executive hosts.
Requeued jobs
Jobs requeued with brequeue start from the beginning. After re-queuing, LSF restores the original allocation request for the job.
Launched jobs
Parallel tasks running through blaunch can be re-sizable. Automatic job resizing is a signaling mechanism only. It does not expand the extent
of the original job launched with blaunch. The resize notiﬁcation script is required along with a signal listening script. The signal listening
script runs additional blaunch commands on notiﬁcation to allocate the re-sized resources to make them available to the job tasks. For help
creating signal listening and notiﬁcation scripts, contact IBM Support.
Switched jobs
bswitch can switch re-sizable jobs between queues regardless of job state (including job’s resizing state). Once the job is switched, the
parameters in new queue apply, including threshold conﬁguration, run limit, CPU limit, queue-level resource requirements, etc.
User group administrators
User group administrators are allowed to issue bresize commands to release a part of resources from job allocation (bresize release), request
additional tasks to allocate to a job (bresize request), or cancel active pending resize request (bresize cancel).
Re-queue exit values
If job-level, application-level or queue-level REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES are deﬁned, and as long as job exits with a deﬁned exit code, LSF puts
the re-queued job back to PEND status. For re-sizable jobs, LSF schedules the job according to the initial allocation request regardless of any
job allocation size change.
Automatic job rerun
A re-runnable job is rescheduled after the ﬁrst running host becomes unreachable. Once job is rerun, LSF schedules re-sizable jobs that are
based on their initial allocation request.
Compute units
Automatically re-sizable jobs can have compute unit requirements.
Alternative resource requirements
Re-sizable jobs can have alternative resource requirements. When using bresize request to request additional tasks, the task increase is
based on the term used for the initial task allocation.
Compound resource requirements
Re-sizable jobs can have compound resource requirements. Only the portion of the job represented by the last term of the compound
resource requirement is eligible for automatic resizing. When using bresize release to release tasks or bresize request to request additional
tasks, you can only release tasks represented by the last term of the compound resource requirement. To release or request tasks in earlier
terms, run bresize release or bresize request repeatedly to release or request tasks in subsequent last terms.
GPU resource requirements
If the value of the LSB_GPU_NEW_SYNTAX setting in the lsf.conf conﬁguration ﬁle is conﬁgured with a value of extend, when jobs with GPU
resource requirement grow or shrink tasks, GPU allocations grow or shrink accordingly based on those resource requirements.
Note: When job slots and GPUs shrink, the whole host shrinks. When releasing all hosts, all execution hosts except the ﬁrst execution host will
be released. Releasing partial slots for the execution host is not supported.
This table outlines how GPU resource requirements impact re-sizeable jobs:
GPU resource
requirementSupport Behavior for resize requirement
num=num_gpus[/ta
sk | host]Yes When a job grows or shrinks slots, its GPU usage changes proportionately.
mode=shared | 
exclusive_proces
sYes When a job grows or shrinks slots, its GPU usage changes proportionately.
IBM Spectrum LSF 801