GPU resource
requirementSupport Behavior for resize requirement
mps No Automatically resizing jobs will have no pending requests, and manually running bresize will be
rejected.
j_exclusive=yes 
| noYes When a job grows or shrinks slots, its GPU usage changes proportionately.
aff=yes | no No Automatically resizing jobs will have no pending requests, and manually running bresize will be
rejected.
block=yes | no Yes Block distribution will be applied to newly allocated slots.
gpack=yes | no Yes If a new host will be allocated to a re-sizable job, when selecting GPU and hosts, it will consider 
gpack policy for pack scheduling.
gvendor=amd | 
nvidiaYes LSF allocates GPUs with the speciﬁed vendor type.
gmodel=model_nam
e[-mem_size]Yes LSF allocates the GPUs with the same model, if available.
gmem=mem_value Yes LSF allocates GPU memory on each newly allocated GPU required by the new tasks.
gtile=! | 
tile_numYes gtile requirements only apply to newly allocated GPUs.
glink=yes Yes Enables job enforcement for special connections among new allocated GPUs for new tasks.
mig No Automatically resizing jobs will have no pending requests, and manually running bresize will be
rejected. While LSF re-sizes jobs, hosts with GPU devices that enable mig will not be considered.
IBM Spectrum LSF Security
Learn how to optimize the security of your LSF cluster.
LSF security considerations
 While the default LSF conﬁguration is adequate for most clusters, you should consider the following issues if you want to increase the security
of your LSF cluster.
Secure your LSF cluster
 Perform the following tasks to secure your LSF cluster.
LSF security considerations
While the default LSF conﬁguration is adequate for most clusters, you should consider the following issues if you want to increase the security of
your LSF cluster.
Communications between daemons and commands
 Transmission of IBM Spectrum LSF commands for remote execution
 Access to jobs belonging to other users
 Accessing remote hosts
 False requests
 Authentication
 
Communications between daemons and commands
Communications between LSF daemons and between LSF commands and daemons are not encrypted. If your LSF clusters are running in an
untrusted or unsecured environment, these communications may be susceptible to interception and spooﬁng attacks. You can enable strict checking
of communications to deal with spooﬁng attacks.
Transmission of IBM® Spectrum LSF commands for remote execution
By default, the following LSF commands make use of remote shell (rsh) and remote login (rlogin):
bctrld start sbd
bpeek
bctrld start lim
bctrld start res
lsfrestart
802    IBM Spectrum LSF

lsfshutdown
lsfstartup
lsrcp
rsh and rlogin may not be suitable for transmission over an insecure network because it is not encrypted. You can conﬁgure these LSF commands to
use secure shell (ssh), which provides encryption when transmitting commands for remote execution.
Access to jobs belonging to other users
All LSF jobs are run under the user ID of the user who submitted the job (unless you are using account mapping). LSF enforces restrictions on job
access based on the user ID of the user who is running a command and the user ID associated with the submitted job.
All LSF users can view basic information on all jobs, including jobs submitted by other users, but can only view detailed information on or modify jobs
submitted by their own user IDs. Only administrators can modify jobs submitted by other users.
User commands providing information on all jobs
Any LSF user can run the following commands to view basic information on any jobs running in the cluster, including jobs submitted by other users:
bjobs
displays information about LSF jobs. By default, bjobs displays information about your own pending, running, and suspended jobs. You can
view information on jobs submitted by other users by using the -u option to specify a speciﬁc user, user group, or all users (using the all
keyword).
bhist
displays historical information about LSF jobs. By default, bhist displays historical information about your own pending, running, and
suspended jobs. You can view historical information on jobs submitted by other users by using the -u option to specify a speciﬁc user, user
group, or all users (using the all keyword).
bhosts
displays information on hosts, including job state statistics and job slot limits. By default, you can view the number of jobs running on each
host, including jobs submitted by other users; however, you only see the total number of jobs running on the host, not the speciﬁc users who
submitted the jobs.
bqueues
displays information on queues, including job slot statistics and job state statistics. By default, the user can view the number of jobs running in
each queue, including jobs submitted by other users; however, you only see the total number of jobs running in the queue, not the speciﬁc
users who submitted the jobs.
User commands that restrict information on jobs submitted by other users
Any LSF user can run the following command to provide detailed information on jobs running in the cluster, but not on jobs submitted by other users:
bpeek
displays standard output and standard error output that have been produced by unﬁnished jobs. This command displays detailed information
on the progress of a job, but you can only view jobs that belong to your own user ID.
Queue and administrator commands that modify all jobs
Queue administrators and LSF administrators can run the following commands to modify jobs submitted by any user. LSF users can also run these
commands, but only to modify their own jobs with certain restrictions:
bbot
moves a pending job relative to the last job in the queue.
btop
moves a pending job relative to the ﬁrst job in the queue.
LSF administrator commands that modify all jobs
LSF administrators can run the following commands to modify jobs submitted by any user. LSF users can also run these commands, but only to
modify or control their own jobs with certain restrictions:
bchkpnt
Checkpoints one or more checkpointable jobs. LSF administrators can checkpoint jobs submitted by any user.
bkill
Sends a signal to kill unﬁnished jobs.
IBM Spectrum LSF 803

bmod
Modiﬁes job submission options of a job.
brestart
Restarts checkpointed jobs.
bresume
Resumes a suspended job.
bstop
Suspends unﬁnished jobs.
Job data ﬁles
Jobs running in the LSF cluster inherit the environment from the user that submitted the job. Work ﬁles and output ﬁles are created based on the ﬁle
permissions environment of the user (such as umask in POSIX environments). LSF does not provide additional security to these ﬁles. Therefore, to
increase the security of work and output data, you need update the security of your hosts and ﬁle system according to the operating systems on your
hosts.
Related concepts
Job information access control
Setting job information access control
Accessing remote hosts
By default, LSF provides commands for running tasks on remote hosts using LSF daemons (lim and res) and LSF ports (LSF_LIM_PORT and
LSF_RES_PORT) for communication. Therefore, even if your cluster restricts users from directly logging into or running commands on remote hosts
(therefore restricting your users to using LSF batch commands to access remote hosts), users can still run the following commands to run tasks on
remote systems under certain circumstances.
lsrun
runs an interactive task on a remote host through LSF. You can run a single task on a single remote host.
lsgrun
runs a task on a set of remote hosts through LSF. You can run a single task on multiple remote hosts.
ch
changes the host on which subsequent commands are to be executed. You can change tasks to run on a selected remote host.
False requests
LSF clusters may be vulnerable to large-scale denial of service (DOS) attacks. If one of the LSF daemons becomes overloaded with false requests, it
may not be able to respond to valid requests.
By default, LSF refuses to accept client requests from hosts not listed in lsf.cluster.cluster_name. If LSF daemons are started on the unlisted host, the
daemons will continue to retry the connection. The LSF management host rejects these requests, but if there are many unlisted hosts doing the same
thing, it may become overloaded and be unable to respond to valid requests.
Since LSF can handle large clusters (several thousand hosts in a cluster) and is designed to be resistant to this type of attack, a malicious attack
needs to simulate a larger scale of false hosts in order to be successful, but LSF still remains potentially vulnerable to a very large-scale attack.
Authentication
In LSF, authentication can come by means of external authentication using the LSF eauth executable, or by means of identiﬁcation daemons
(identd). External authentication provides the highest level of security and is the default method of authentication in LSF. It is installed in the
directory speciﬁed by the LSF_SERVERDIR parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
By default, eauth uses an internal key to encrypt authentication data, but you may use a customized external key to improve security. You can also
write your own eauth executable to meet the security requirements of your cluster, using the default eauth as a demonstration of the eauth
protocol.
804    IBM Spectrum LSF

Update the eauth executable ﬁle
If you are using LSF, Version 10.1 Fix Packs 2 to 9, you can also replace the default eauth executable ﬁle with the eauth.cve executable ﬁle, which
automatically generates a site-speciﬁc internal key by using 128-bit AES encryption. Rename or move the original eauth executable ﬁle, then
rename the eauth.cve executable ﬁle to eauth.
In Windows hosts, replace the eauth.exe executable ﬁle with eauth.cve.exe
The new eauth command rejects LSF requests from hosts with a UTC time offset of more than ﬁve minutes compared to the LSF server host.
If you are using LSF, Version 10.1 Fix Pack 10 and later, you do not need to replace the eauth executable ﬁle because it already includes the features
in the eauth.cve ﬁle. In addition, LSF, Version 10.1 Fix Pack 10 and later no longer allows root execution privileges for jobs from local and remote
hosts. Any actions that were performed with root privileges must instead be performed as the LSF administrator. For more details on temporarily
enabling root privileges, refer to Temporarily enable root privileges.
If you are using the new eauth command with the LSF multicluster capability in LSF clusters with the following LSF features, you must conﬁgure the
same LSF_EAUTH_KEY value in the lsf.sudoers ﬁle on all related clusters:
Interactive tasks on remote hosts run by using the lsrun -m or lsgrun -m commands
LSF data managers
Note: To use the lsf.sudoers ﬁle, you must enable the setuid bit for the LSF administration commands. Run the hostsetup --setuid command option
on the LSF management and candidate hosts. Since this allows LSF administration commands to run with root privileges, do not enable the setuid bit
if you do not want these LSF commands to run with root privileges.
The hostsetup --setuid command enables the setuid bit for the following LSF executable ﬁles: badmin, lsadmin, egosh, utmpreg, swtbl_api,
ntbl_api, lstbl_nid, and swtbl_poe.
If you are using IBM® Spectrum LSF RTM, you must also update to the corresponding new eauth executable ﬁle for IBM Spectrum LSF RTM.
Note: You must replace the executable ﬁle on all LSF hosts in the LSF cluster to work together. Otherwise, LSF commands that run on the hosts
without the new eauth executable ﬁle will encounter authentication problems.
Secure your LSF cluster
Perform the following tasks to secure your LSF cluster.
Note: If you run LSF in a mixed cluster, you must make sure that parameters set in the lsf.conf ﬁle on UNIX and Linux match all corresponding
parameters in the local lsf.conf ﬁles on your Windows hosts. When you need to edit the lsf.conf ﬁle, make sure to specify the same parameters for
UNIX, Linux, and Windows hosts.
Encrypt transmission of LSF commands for remote execution and login
 Restrict user access to remote hosts
 Secure your cluster against false requests
 Customize external authentication
 Enable external authentication of LSF daemons
 Secure the cluster from root access for batch interactive jobs in pseudoterminals
 Restrict user access to administration commands and log ﬁles
 Job information access control
 LSF allows you to set the job information access control level to jobs by users (including user group, queue, and cluster administrators).
Secure the lsf.conf ﬁle and prevent users from changing the job user at job submission time
 Temporarily enable root privileges
 Temporarily enable root privileges if you need to perform tasks as root.
View the cluster security settings
 Use the badmin security view command to check the current conﬁguration of the LSF security mechanism.
Encrypt transmission of LSF commands for remote execution and login
About this task
By default, certain LSF commands use rsh for remote execution and rlogin for remote login, both of which are not encrypted. To secure these LSF
commands, enable the use of ssh for remote execution, because ssh provides encryption when transmitting LSF commands.
The following LSF commands are covered by this change:
bctrld start sbd
bpeek
bctrld start lim
IBM Spectrum LSF 805

bctrld start res
lsfrestart
lsfshutdown
lsfstartup
lsrcp
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.conf ﬁle.
2. Change the remote execution shell from rsh to ssh by specifying the LSF_RSH parameter.
For example,
LSF_RSH="ssh -o ’PasswordAuthentication no’ 
-o ’StrictHostKeyChecking no’"
3. Change the remote login shell by specifying the LSF_LSLOGIN_SSH parameter.
LSF_LSLOGIN_SSH=yes
4. Reconﬁgure LIM and restart mbatchd on the management host to activate these changes.
lsadmin reconfig
badmin mbdrestart
Results
The affected LSF commands now use ssh for remote execution and remote login.
Restrict user access to remote hosts
About this task
Even if your cluster restricts users from directly accessing remote hosts, they can still use lsrun, lsgrun, lsmake, and ch to run tasks on speciﬁc
remote hosts.
To prevent users from accessing speciﬁc remote hosts and let LSF control which remote hosts are being used, restrict access to the lsrun, lsgrun,
lsmake, and ch commands.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.conf ﬁle.
2. Restrict user access to the lsrun, lsgrun, and lsmake commands by specifying the LSF_DISABLE_LSRUN parameter.
LSF_DISABLE_LSRUN=Y
LSF administrators still have access to lsrun, lsgrun, and lsmake.
3. Reconﬁgure LIM and restart mbatchd on the management host to activate these changes.
lsadmin reconfig
badmin mbdrestart
4. Restrict access to the ch commands by restricting the execution permissions of the ch binary in the LSF binary directories to the LSF
administrators.
Results
Only LSF administrators can run lsrun, lsgrun, and lsmake to launch tasks in remote hosts, and only LSF administrators can run ch to change the
remote hosts on which a task runs.
Secure your cluster against false requests
About this task
To secure your cluster against false requests sent from unlisted hosts, restrict access to the LSF management host and management candidates.
806    IBM Spectrum LSF

The parameters you set to restrict access depend on whether your cluster allows dynamic hosts.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.conf ﬁle.
2. Limit the number of management candidates in your cluster that are speciﬁed by the LSF_MASTER_LIST parameter.
3. If your cluster does not allow dynamic hosts, prevent unlisted hosts from sending requests by specifying the LSF_REJECT_NONLSFHOST
parameter.
LSF_REJECT_NONLSFHOST=yes
4. Edit the lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle.
5. Limit or remove the range of IP addresses that are allowed to be dynamic LSF hosts by editing or deleting the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE
parameter.
If your cluster allows dynamic hosts, limit the range of IP addresses that are speciﬁed by the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter.
If your cluster does not allow dynamic hosts, ensure that the LSF_HOST_ADDR_RANGE parameter is not speciﬁed.
6. Reconﬁgure LIM and restart mbatchd on the management host to activate these changes.
lsadmin reconfig
badmin mbdrestart
Customize external authentication
Before you begin
To use the lsf.sudoers ﬁle, you must enable the setuid bit for the LSF administration commands. Run the hostsetup --setuid command option on the
LSF management and candidate hosts. Since this allows LSF administration commands to run with root privileges, do not enable the setuid bit if you
do not want these LSF commands to run with root privileges.
The hostsetup --setuid command enables the setuid bit for the following LSF executable ﬁles: badmin, lsadmin, egosh, utmpreg, swtbl_api,
ntbl_api, lstbl_nid, and swtbl_poe.
About this task
By default, eauth uses an internal key to encrypt authentication data, but you may wish to use your own external key to further improve security.
If you are using LSF, Version 10.1 Fix Pack 2, or later, you can also replace the default eauth executable ﬁle with the eauth.cve executable ﬁle, which
automatically generates a site-speciﬁc internal key by using 128-bit AES encryption. For more detailed information on how to replace the eauth
executable ﬁle, see lsf_security_authentication.html#lsf_security_authentication__v1726199.
You can also write your own external authentication application to meet the security requirements of your cluster.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.sudoers ﬁle.
2. Use a custom external key by specifying the LSF_EAUTH_KEY parameter.
LSF_EAUTH_KEY=key
You can generate a key by using public key generator tools such as GnuPG or ssh-keygen. The following is an example of generating
authorization keys with GnuPG:
a. Download the GnuPG package from the GnuPG website and install the package on the LSF management host.
b. Create GPG keys by running the gpg --gen-key command.
c. Edit the lsf.sudoers ﬁle and comment out the original LSF_EAUTH_KEY parameter deﬁnition.
d. Export the ASCII-armored format output of the GPG key and append this format output to the lsf.sudoers ﬁle.
LSF_EAUTH_KEY=<ASCII-armored format of the GPG key>
Note: In Windows hosts, you must edit the shared lsf.sudoers ﬁle.
e. In UNIX hosts, copy the lsf.sudoers ﬁle to the /etc directory on each LSF host.
f. Reconﬁgure the cluster to apply this change.
badmin reconfig
3. Restart the cluster to activate this change.
lsfrestart
Enable external authentication of LSF daemons
IBM Spectrum LSF 807

Before you begin
To use the lsf.sudoers ﬁle, you must enable the setuid bit for the LSF administration commands. Run the hostsetup --setuid command option on the
LSF management and candidate hosts. Since this allows LSF administration commands to run with root privileges, do not enable the setuid bit if you
do not want these LSF commands to run with root privileges.
The hostsetup --setuid command enables the setuid bit for the following LSF executable ﬁles: badmin, lsadmin, egosh, utmpreg, swtbl_api,
ntbl_api, lstbl_nid, and swtbl_poe.
About this task
You can increase LSF daemon security in your cluster by enabling LSF daemon authentication.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.sudoers ﬁle.
2. Enable LSF daemon authentication by specifying the LSF_AUTH_DAEMONS parameter.
LSF_AUTH_DAEMONS=Y
3. Reconﬁgure the management host to activate this change.
badmin reconfig
Secure the cluster from root access for batch interactive jobs in
pseudoterminals
About this task
Batch interactive jobs in pseudoterminals (that is, jobs submitted using bsub -Is and bsub -Ip commands) could obtain root privileges to your
cluster due to environment variables (LD_PRELOAD and LD_LIBRARY_PATH) contained in the jobs.
To enhance security against users obtaining root privileges using batch interactive jobs in pseudoterminals, enable the cluster remove these
environment variables from batch interactive jobs during job initialization. These environment variables are put back before the job runs.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.conf ﬁle.
2. Enable the cluster to remove the LS_PRELOAD and LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variables from jobs submitted using bsub -Is and bsub -
Ip commands during job initialization by specifying the LSF_LD_SECURITY parameter.
LSF_LD_SECURITY=y
3. Reconﬁgure LIM and restart mbatchd on the management host to activate these changes.
lsadmin reconfig
badmin mbdrestart
Results
In jobs submitted using bsub -Is and bsub -Ip commands, the LD_PRELOAD and LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variables are moved to the
LSF_LD_PRELOAD and LSF_LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variables and are moved back before the job runs.
Restrict user access to administration commands and log ﬁles
About this task
Log ﬁles may contain sensitive cluster information that need to be restricted to LSF administrators only. To restrict access to the LSF cluster log ﬁles,
restrict the read/write permissions to all ﬁles in the log directory.
Cluster administrative tools (badmin and lsadmin) can only be used by LSF administrators. To provide an additional layer of security to prevent
unauthorized administrator access to your LSF cluster, restrict the execution permissions for these commands.
Procedure
808    IBM Spectrum LSF

1. Restrict access to the LSF cluster log ﬁles by restricting the read/write permissions of the log directory to the LSF administrators.
2. Restrict access to the administrative tools by restricting the execution permissions of the badmin and lsadmin binaries in the LSF binary
directories to the LSF administrators.
Tip:
You can also restrict access to other LSF commands by restricting the execution permissions of their respective binary ﬁles.
Results
Only LSF administrators can read the contents of the log directory or run cluster administration commands (badmin and lsadmin).
Job information access control
LSF allows you to set the job information access control level to jobs by users (including user group, queue, and cluster administrators).
This control is useful for large environments where many groups may share the same cluster and it may be a security threat to allow some users to
view job details and summary information. With job information access control levels conﬁgured, you may prevent users (including administrator
users) from viewing other user’s job information through LSF commands including bjobs, bjdepinfo, bread, bstatus, bhist, and bacct.
Note:
There are no rights restrictions for the primary administrator. They may always see all job detail information.
On UNIX platforms, there is no rights restriction for root. On Windows platforms, the Windows administrator is treated as a regular user.
Job information access control is not supported on LSF Express Edition.
Some batch commands that use the job query API (that is, bkill, bstop, bresume, bchkpnt, bmig, brequeue, and bswitch) are affected by
enabling job information access control. If these commands are issued without specifying the jobId, the behavior will follow the job
information access control settings, when enabled. If these commands are issued with the jobId speciﬁed, the behavior will not follow the job
information access control settings.
Job information types
There are two kinds of job information which will be viewed by users:
Summary Information:
Obtained from bjobs with options other than -l, such as -aps, -fwd, -p, -ss, -sum, -W, -WF, -WP, -WL, etc.
If SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS is set to G in the lsb.params ﬁle, this is also obtained from bacct with options that are not -l and -UF and
from bhist with that are not -b, -l, and -UF. This includes the bacct -d, -e, -q, and -w options; and the bhist -a, -b, and -d options.
Detail Information:
Obtained from bjobs -l, bjobs -UF, bjobs -N, bjdepinfo, bread, and bstatus.
If SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS is set to G in the lsb.params ﬁle, this is also obtained from bacct -l, bacct -UF, bhist -b, bhist -l, and
bhist -UF.
There are two kinds of user rights which will determine what kind of information a user can view for a job:
Basic rights: User can see all summary information.
Detail rights: User can see all detail information.
Setting job information access control
 There are three parameters available in lsb.params that allow you to control access to job information: SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL,
ENABLE_JOB_INFO_BY_ADMIN_ROLE, and SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS.
Setting job information access control
There are three parameters available in lsb.params that allow you to control access to job information: SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL,
ENABLE_JOB_INFO_BY_ADMIN_ROLE, and SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS.
Controlling jobs a user can see
The parameter SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL in lsb.params allows you to control which jobs any user (including adminisrators other than the primary
administrator) can see information for. A value between 0 and 4 is deﬁned, with 0 being no security and 4 being the highest security.
When a user or administrator enters one of the commands to see job information (bjobs, bjdepinfo, bread, or bstatus; also bacct and bhist if
SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS=G), the SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL parameter controls what they see. The following table describes the type of
job information that can be viewed by a user with each security level.
IBM Spectrum LSF 809

Security LevelUser’s Own JobSame User Group Job
Summary InfoSame User Group Job
Detail InfoAll Other Jobs’
Summary InfoAll Other Jobs’
Detail Info
0 Y Y Y Y Y
1 Y Y Y Y
2 Y Y Y  
3 Y Y    
4 Y      
5 Y Y   Y  
Note:
If SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL is set to a level greater than 0, LSF checks if SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS is enabled (set to Y or G). If it is
not enabled, access to bjobs functions will be restricted, but access to bhist / bacct will be available.
When using the LSF multicluster capability, the SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL deﬁnition still applies when a user attempts to view job
information from a remote cluster through the bjobs -m remotecluster command. The security level conﬁguration of a speciﬁed cluster will
take effect.
Enabling administrator rights to job information
By default, an administrator’s access to job details is determined by the setting of SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL, the same as a regular user. The
parameter ENABLE_JOB_INFO_BY_ADMIN_ROLE in lsb.params allows you to enable user group, queue, and cluster administrators the right to
access job detail information for jobs in the user group, queue, and clusters they manage, even when the administrator has no right based on the
conﬁguration of SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL.
When an administrator enters one of the commands to see job information (bjobs, bjdepinfo, bread, or bstatus; also bacct and bhist if
SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS=G), the ENABLE_JOB_INFO_BY_ADMIN_ROLE deﬁnition controls whether they see job detail information about
jobs in their user group, queue or cluster that they manage.
The parameter may be set with any combination of the values usergroup, queue, or cluster.
Note: This does not apply to the primary administrator who will always see job information.
Preventing users from viewing jobs that belong to other users
The parameter SECURE_INFODIR_USER_ACCESS in lsb.params allows you to control whether regular and administrator users (except the primary
admin) can see other user’s jobs when using the bhist or bacct command.
If enabled (deﬁned as Y), regular users and administrators can view only their own job information when using the bhist or bacct command, but you
can control the granularity of the bjobs command to specify the information that other users can see by specifying a value for the
SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster/logdir will be readable only by the primary administrator.
If enabled with increased granularity (deﬁned as G), regular users and administrators can normally view only their own job information when using
the bhist or bacct commands, but you can control the granularity of these commands to specify the information that other users can see by
specifying a value for the SECURE_JOB_INFO_LEVEL parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster/logdir will be readable only by the
primary administrator.
When disabled (deﬁned as N), access to read LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster/logdir returns to default after an mbatchd restart or reconﬁg.
Note: An LSF cluster should have only one primary administrator. For example, server and management hosts should have the same primary
administrator to ensure bhist and bacct commands have rights to access the events ﬁle.
Note: This feature is only supported when LSF is installed on a ﬁle system that supports setuid bit for ﬁle. Therefore, this feature does not work on
Windows platforms.
Secure the lsf.conf ﬁle and prevent users from changing the job user at job
submission time
About this task
LSF uses an external authentication framework to secure user credentials for the data stream between LSF clients and servers. However, there is a
potential security issue where, when submitting a job, users can preload the getuid and change the job user.
To prevent the preloading of getuid to prevent users from changing the job user at job submission time, run the hostsetup --ext-serverdir and --
eauth command options with root privileges.
Procedure
810    IBM Spectrum LSF