brequeue causes TotalView to display all jobs in error status. Click Go and the jobs will rerun.
Job rerun within TotalView is not supported. Do not submit jobs for debugging to a rerunnable queue.
Register LSF host names and IP addresses to LSF servers
Register the IP address and host name of your local LSF host with LSF servers so that LSF servers do not need to use the DNS server to resolve your
local host.
This addresses the issues of resolving the host name and IP address of LSF hosts with non-static IP addresses in environments where the DNS
server is not able to properly resolve these hosts after their IP addresses change.
To enable host registration, specify LSF_REG_FLOAT_HOSTS=Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle on each LSF server, or on one LSF server if all servers have access
to the LSB_SHAREDIR directory. This parameter enables LSF daemons to look for records in the reghostscache ﬁle when attempting to look up host
names or IP addresses.
By default, the reghostscache ﬁle is stored in the ﬁle path as deﬁned by the LSB_SHAREDIR parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. Deﬁne the LSB_SHAREDIR
parameter so that the reghostscache ﬁle can be shared with as many LSF servers as possible. For all LSF servers that have access to the shared
directory deﬁned by LSB_SHAREDIR, only one of these servers need to receive the registration request from the local host. This reduces network
load by reducing the number of servers to which the registration request must be sent. If all hosts in the cluster can access LSB_SHAREDIR, the
registration only needs to be sent to the management host LIM, which records the host information in the shared reghostscache ﬁle that all other
servers can access. If LSB_SHAREDIR is not deﬁned, the reghostscache ﬁle is placed in the LSF_TOP directory.
A typical record in the reghostscache ﬁle might look like the following:
MyHost1    192.168.1.2    S-1-5-21-5615612300-9789239785-9879786971
Windows hosts that register have their computer SID included as part of the record. If a registration request is received from an already registered
host but its SID does not match with the corresponding record's SID in the reghostscache ﬁle. This new registration request is rejected, which
prevents malicious hosts from imitating another host's name and registering itself as another host.
After enabling host registration, you can register LSF hosts by running the lsreghost command from the local host while specifying a path to the
hostregsetup ﬁle:
UNIX: lsreghost -s ﬁle_path/hostregsetup
You must run the UNIX command with root privileges. If you want to register the local host at regular intervals, set up a cron job to run this
command.
Windows: lsreghost -i ﬁle_path\hostregsetup
The Windows command installs lsreghost as a Windows service that automatically starts up when the host starts up.
The hostregsetup ﬁle is a text ﬁle with the names of the LSF servers to which the local host must register itself. Each line in the ﬁle contains the host
name of one LSF server. Empty lines and #comment text are ignored.
For example:
# Rack 1 hosts 
host1A 
host1B 
host1C 
# Rack 2 hosts 
host2A 
host2B 
host2C
FLOAT_CLIENTS
The floating clients feature is optional and is an add-on to normal static clients. FLOAT_CLIENTS_ADDR_RANGE only applies to floating clients. This
includes client hosts with DHCP assigned IP addresses (i.e. laptops).
When LSF is started, the static servers and clients deﬁned under the Host section in the lsf.cluster ﬁle are added to the cluster. A floating client can
be joined only when an LSF command is run from this host and LSF has veriﬁed it against FLOAT_CLIENTS (total number of floating clients) and
FLOAT_CLIENTS_ADDR_RANGE (IP range). After veriﬁcation, they are listed by the lshosts command. A floating client expires at 12:00 midnight or
when the management host LIM is reconﬁgured or restarted.
IBM Spectrum LSF performance tuning
Tune the performance and scalability of your LSF cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 887

Tune your IBM Spectrum LSF cluster
Tune LIM policies and parameters to improve performance. Use badmin mbdrestart -p to enable parallel restart to Improve mbatchd response
time after mbatchd restart. On UNIX platforms that support thread programming, change default mbatchd behavior to use multithreading and
increase performance of bjobs query requests. Conﬁgure Hard CPU afﬁnity to specify the management host CPUs on which mbatchd child
query processes can run. Use the JOB_SWITCH2_EVENT parameter in lsb.params to log mbatchd performance metrics. Enable
DISPATCH_BY_QUEUE to increase queue responsiveness.
Achieve performance and scalability
Tune LSF for large clusters and monitor performance metrics in real time. Optimize performance in large sites by tuning queries, scheduling,
and event logging.
Tune your IBM Spectrum LSF cluster
Tune LIM policies and parameters to improve performance. Use badmin mbdrestart -p to enable parallel restart to Improve mbatchd response time
after mbatchd restart. On UNIX platforms that support thread programming, change default mbatchd behavior to use multithreading and increase
performance of bjobs query requests. Conﬁgure Hard CPU afﬁnity to specify the management host CPUs on which mbatchd child query processes
can run. Use the JOB_SWITCH2_EVENT parameter in lsb.params to log mbatchd performance metrics. Enable DISPATCH_BY_QUEUE to increase
queue responsiveness.
Tune LIM
 Improve mbatchd response time after mbatchd restart
 Improve performance of mbatchd query requests on UNIX
 Improve mbatchd query performance on UNIX systems by using mbatchd multithreading, hard CPU afﬁnity, or by conﬁguring the query proxy
daemon (lsproxyd).
Logging mbatchd performance metrics
 Logging mbatchd and mbschd proﬁling information
 Improve performance of mbatchd for job array switching events
 Increase queue responsiveness
 Automatically bind LSF daemons to speciﬁc CPU cores
 Bind a deﬁned set of LSF daemons to CPU cores to distribute CPU resources among critical functions and improve scheduling performance.
Use LSF Explorer to improve the performance of the bacct and bhist commands, or to retrieve additional data
 Use LSF Explorer to get information for the bacct and bhist commands more efﬁciently, or to retrieve additional data for LSF Explorer energy
accounting or IBM® Spectrum Scale I/O accounting.
Improve slot utilization by preventing bwait from running in jobs
 
Tune LIM
LIM provides critical services to all LSF components. In addition to the timely collection of resource information, LIM provides host selection and job
placement policies. If you are using IBM® MultiCluster, LIM determines how different clusters should exchange load and resource information. You
can tune LIM policies and parameters to improve performance.
LIM uses load thresholds to determine whether to place remote jobs on a host. If one or more LSF load indices exceeds the corresponding threshold
(too many users, not enough swap space, etc.), then the host is regarded as busy and LIM will not recommend jobs to that host. You can also tune
LIM load thresholds.
Load thresholds
 How LSF works with LSF_MASTER_LIST
 
Adjust LIM Parameters
There are two main goals in adjusting LIM conﬁguration parameters: improving response time, and reducing interference with interactive use. To
improve response time, tune LSF to correctly select the best available host for each job. To reduce interference, tune LSF to avoid overloading any
host.
LIM policies are advisory information for applications. Applications can either use the placement decision from LIM, or make further decisions that
are based on information from LIM.
Most of the LSF interactive tools use LIM policies to place jobs on the network. LSF uses load and resource information from LIM and makes its own
placement decisions based on other factors in addition to load information.
Files that affect LIM are lsf.shared, lsf.cluster.cluster_name, where cluster_name is the name of your cluster.
RUNWINDOW parameter
LIM thresholds and run windows affect the job placement advice of LIM. Job placement advice is not enforced by LIM.
888    IBM Spectrum LSF

The RUNWINDOW parameter deﬁned in lsf.cluster.cluster_name speciﬁes one or more time windows during which a host is considered available. If
the current time is outside all the deﬁned time windows, the host is considered locked and LIM will not advise any applications to run jobs on the
host.
Load thresholds
Load threshold parameters deﬁne the conditions beyond which a host is considered busy by LIM and are a major factor in influencing performance.
No jobs will be dispatched to a busy host by LIM’s policy. Each of these parameters is a load index value, so that if the host load goes beyond that
value, the host becomes busy.
LIM uses load thresholds to determine whether to place remote jobs on a host. If one or more LSF load indices exceeds the corresponding threshold
(too many users, not enough swap space, etc.), then the host is regarded as busy and LIM will not recommend jobs to that host.
Thresholds can be set for any load index supported internally by the LIM, and for any external load index.
If a particular load index is not speciﬁed, LIM assumes that there is no threshold for that load index. Deﬁne looser values for load thresholds if you
want to aggressively run jobs on a host.
Load indices that affect LIM performance
Load index Description
r15s 15-second CPU run queue length
r1m 1-minute CPU run queue length
r15m 15-minute CPU run queue length
pg Paging rate in pages per second
swp Available swap space
it Interactive idle time
ls Number of users logged in
Compare LIM load thresholds
 LIM reports a host as busy
 Interactive jobs
 Multiprocessor systems
 On multiprocessor systems, CPU run queue lengths (r15s, r1m, r15m) are compared to the effective run queue lengths as displayed by the
lsload -E command.
Compare LIM load thresholds
About this task
Tune LIM load thresholds, compare the output of lsload to the thresholds reported by lshosts -l.
Procedure
1. Run lshosts -l
2. Run lsload
The lsload command displays an asterisk * next to each load index that exceeds its threshold.
Example
Consider the following output from lshosts -l and lsload:
lshosts -l 
HOST_NAME:  hostD  
...  
LOAD_THRESHOLDS:  
     r15s   r1m  r15m   ut   pg    io   ls   it   tmp   swp   mem  
     -      3.5  -      -    15    -    -    -    -     2M    1M  
  
HOST_NAME:  hostA  
...  
LOAD_THRESHOLDS:  
     r15s   r1m  r15m   ut   pg    io   ls   it   tmp   swp   mem  
IBM Spectrum LSF 889

     -      3.5  -      -    15    -    -    -    -     2M    1M 
  
lsload   
HOST_NAME status r15s  r1m  r15m   ut    pg   ls  it  tmp  swp  mem  
hostD     ok     0.0   0.0  0.0    0%    0.0  6   0   30M  32M  10M  
hostA     busy   1.9   2.1  1.9    47%  *69.6 21  0   38M  96M  60M 
In this example, the hosts have the following characteristics:
hostD is ok.
hostA is busy, the pg (paging rate) index is 69.6, above the threshold of 15.
LIM reports a host as busy
If LIM often reports a host as busy when the CPU utilization and run queue lengths are relatively low and the system is responding quickly, the most
likely cause is the paging rate threshold. Try raising the pg threshold.
Different operating systems assign subtly different meanings to the paging rate statistic, so the threshold needs to be set at different levels for
different host types. In particular, HP-UX systems need to be conﬁgured with signiﬁcantly higher pg values; try starting at a value of 50.
There is a point of diminishing returns. As the paging rate rises, eventually the system spends too much time waiting for pages and the CPU utilization
decreases. Paging rate is the factor that most directly affects perceived interactive response. If a system is paging heavily, it feels very slow.
Interactive jobs
If you ﬁnd that interactive jobs slow down system response while LIM still reports your host as ok, reduce the CPU run queue lengths (r15s, r1m,
r15m). Likewise, increase CPU run queue lengths if hosts become busy at low loads.
Multiprocessor systems
On multiprocessor systems, CPU run queue lengths (r15s, r1m, r15m) are compared to the effective run queue lengths as displayed by the lsload -E
command.
CPU run queue lengths should be conﬁgured as the load limit for a single processor. Sites with a variety of uniprocessor and multiprocessor machines
can use a standard value for r15s, r1m and r15m in the conﬁguration ﬁles, and the multiprocessor machines will automatically run more jobs.
Note that the normalized run queue length displayed by lsload -N is scaled by the number of processors.
How LSF works with LSF_MASTER_LIST
The ﬁles lsf.shared and lsf.cluster.cluster_name are shared only among LIMs on hosts that are listed as candidates to be elected the management
host with the parameter LSF_MASTER_LIST.
The preferred management host is no longer the ﬁrst host in the cluster list in lsf.cluster.cluster_name, but the ﬁrst host in the list speciﬁed by
LSF_MASTER_LIST in lsf.conf.
Whenever you reconﬁgure, only LIMs on the management host candidates read lsf.shared and lsf.cluster.cluster_name to get updated information.
The LIM on the elected management host sends conﬁguration information to child LIMs on the server hosts.
The order in which you specify hosts in LSF_MASTER_LIST is the preferred order for selecting hosts to become the management host.
Non-shared ﬁle considerations
Generally, the ﬁles lsf.cluster.cluster_name and lsf.shared for hosts that are management candidates should be identical.
When the cluster is started up or reconﬁgured, LSF rereads conﬁguration ﬁles and compares lsf.cluster.cluster_name and lsf.shared for hosts that are
management candidates.
In some cases in which identical ﬁles are not shared, ﬁles may be out of sync. This section describes situations that may arise should
lsf.cluster.cluster_name and lsf.shared for hosts that are management candidates not be identical to those of the elected management host.
890    IBM Spectrum LSF

LSF_MASTER_LIST host eligibility
LSF only rejects candidate management hosts listed in LSF_MASTER_LIST from the cluster if the number of load indices in lsf.cluster.cluster_nameor
lsf.shared for management candidates is different from the number of load indices in the lsf.cluster.cluster_name or lsf.shared ﬁles of the elected
management host.
A warning is logged in the log ﬁle lim.log.management_host_name and the cluster continue to run, but without the hosts that were rejected.
If you want the hosts that were rejected to be part of the cluster, ensure the number of load indices in lsf.cluster.cluster_name and lsf.shared are
identical for all management candidates and restart LIMs on the management and all management candidates:
bctrld restart lim hostA hostB hostC
Failover with ineligible management host candidates
If the elected management host goes down and if the number of load indices in lsf.cluster.cluster_name or lsf.shared for the new elected
management host is different from the number of load indices in the ﬁles of the management host that went down, LSF will reject all management
candidates that do not have the same number of load indices in their ﬁles as the newly elected management host. LSF will also reject all server-only
hosts. This could cause a situation in which only the newly elected management host is considered part of the cluster.
A warning is logged in the log ﬁle lim.log.new_management_host_name and the cluster continue to run, but without the hosts that were rejected.
To resolve this, from the current management host, restart all LIMs:
lsadmin limrestart all
All server-only hosts will be considered part of the cluster. Candidate management hosts with a different number of load indices in their
lsf.cluster.cluster_nameor lsf.shared ﬁles will be rejected.
When the management host that was down comes back up, you need to ensure load indices deﬁned in lsf.cluster.cluster_name and lsf.shared for all
management candidates are identical and restart LIMs on all management candidates.
Using a DNS host cache
A cluster-wide DNS host cache is used to improve cluster startup performance.
To mitigate the burden on the DNS server when starting an LSF cluster, a cluster-based cache ﬁle ($LSF_ENVDIR/.hosts.dnscache) is used by all
daemons on each host to reduce the number of times that LSF daemons directly call the DNS server.
The format of the cache ﬁle is the same as $LSF_ENVDIR/hosts:
IPAddress OfficialName AliasName
For shared installations, the management host LIM creates the DNS host cache ﬁle $LSF_ENVDIR/.hosts.dnscache if the ﬁle does not exist. The
mbatchd daemon periodically flushes the local host cache information into the DNS host cache ﬁle.
For non-shared installations, LIM creates the DNS host cache ﬁle $LSF_TMPDIR/.hosts.dnscache if the ﬁle does not exist. LIM periodically flushes
local host cache information into the DNS host cache ﬁle.
When the IP address or hostname is changed on the DNS server side, LSF daemons can directly call the DNS server to obtain the updated
information before the DNS host cache ﬁle is flushed with the updated information.
Use the parameter LSF_HOST_CACHE_DISABLE in lsf.conf to disable the use of a cluster-wide DNS host cache ﬁle.
Improve mbatchd response time after mbatchd restart
Parallel restart is a mechanism to minimize the LSF downtime (i.e., not responding to user requests) for mbatchd restart. The root mbatchd is forked,
creating a child mbatchd process to help with mbatchd restart performance. The child mbatchd processes regular start up logic, including reading
conﬁguration ﬁles and replaying events. Meanwhile, the old mbatchd can respond to client commands (bsub, bjobs, etc.), handle job scheduling and
status updates, dispatching, and updating new events to event ﬁles. When complete, the child mbatchd process takes over as parent mbatchd, and
the old parent mbatchd process dies.
While the new mbatchd is initializing, the old mbatchd is still able to respond to client commands. badmin showstatus will display the parallel
restart status. It helps the administrator know that there is a background mbatchd (by PID) doing a parallel restart.
Use badmin mbdrestart -p to enable parallel restart.
IBM Spectrum LSF 891

Improve performance of mbatchd query requests on UNIX
Improve mbatchd query performance on UNIX systems by using mbatchd multithreading, hard CPU afﬁnity, or by conﬁguring the query proxy
daemon (lsproxyd).
Conﬁguring mbatchd to use multithreading
 On UNIX platforms that support thread programming, you can change default mbatchd behavior to use multithreading and increase
performance of query requests when you use the bjobs command. Multithreading is beneﬁcial for busy clusters with many jobs and frequent
query requests. This may indirectly increase overall mbatchd performance.
Specify hard CPU afﬁnity
 You can also specify the management host CPUs on which mbatchd child daemon query processes can run. This so-called hard CPU afﬁnity
improves mbatchd daemon scheduling and dispatch performance by binding query processes to speciﬁc CPUs so that higher priority
mbatchd daemon processes can run more efﬁciently.
Offloading the mbatchd daemon using the LSF rate limiter (lsfproxyd daemon)
 By default, all LSF batch commands contact the mbatchd daemon (or the mbatchd query child, if conﬁgured). When there are excessive
requests, such as scripts with tight loop running bjobs commands, mbatchd can become overloaded, negatively affecting cluster
performance. Starting in Fix Pack 14, to protect mbatchd from heavy loads, enable the LSF rate limiter (controlled by the lsfproxyd
daemon), which acts as a gatekeeper between the commands and the mbatchd daemon. The rate limiter is supported on Linux.
Conﬁguring mbatchd to use multithreading
On UNIX platforms that support thread programming, you can change default mbatchd behavior to use multithreading and increase performance of
query requests when you use the bjobs command. Multithreading is beneﬁcial for busy clusters with many jobs and frequent query requests. This
may indirectly increase overall mbatchd performance.
About this task
By default, mbatchd uses the port deﬁned by the parameter LSB_MBD_PORT in the lsf.conf ﬁle or looks into the system services database for port
numbers to communicate with LIM and job request commands.
It uses this port number to receive query requests from clients.
For every query service request received, mbatchd forks a child mbatchd to service the request. Each child mbatchd processes the request and
then exits.
When mbatchd has a dedicated port speciﬁed by the parameter LSB_QUERY_PORT in the lsf.conf ﬁle, it forks a child mbatchd which in turn creates
threads to process bjobs query requests.
As soon as mbatchd has forked a child mbatchd, the child mbatchd takes over, and listens on the port to process more bjobs query requests. For
each query request, the child mbatchd creates a thread to process it.
If you specify LSB_QUERY_ENH=Y in lsf.conf, batch query multithreading is extended to all mbatchd query commands except for the following:
bread
bstatus
tspeek
The child mbatchd continues to listen to the port number speciﬁed by LSB_QUERY_PORT and creates threads to service requests until the job status
changes, a new job is submitted, or until the time speciﬁed in MBD_REFRESH_TIME in lsb.params has passed. For pending jobs that changed state
(e.g., from PEND to EXIT caused by the automatic orphan job termination feature), a new child mbatchd is created based only on the time conﬁgured
by the MBD_REFRESH_TIME parameter.
Specify a time interval, in seconds, when mbatchd will fork a new child mbatchd to service query requests to keep information sent back to clients
updated. A child mbatchd processes query requests creating threads.
MBD_REFRESH_TIME has the following syntax:
MBD_REFRESH_TIME=seconds [min_refresh_time]
where min_refresh_time deﬁnes the minimum time (in seconds) that the child mbatchd will stay to handle queries. The valid range is 0 - 300. The
default is 5 seconds.
If MBD_REFRESH_TIME is < min_refresh_time, the child mbatchd exits at MBD_REFRESH_TIME even if the job changes status or a new job is
submitted before MBD_REFRESH_TIME expires.
If MBD_REFRESH_TIME > min_refresh_time
the child mbatchd exits at min_refresh_time if a job changes status or a new job is submitted before the min_refresh_time
the child mbatchd exits after the min_refresh_time when a job changes status or a new job is submitted
892    IBM Spectrum LSF

If MBD_REFRESH_TIME > min_refresh_time and no job changes status or a new job is submitted, the child mbatchd exits at
MBD_REFRESH_TIME
The default for min_refresh_time is 10 seconds.
If you extend multithreaded query support to batch query requests (by specifying LSB_QUERY_ENH=Y in lsf.conf), the child mbatchd will also exit if
any of the following commands are run in the cluster:
bconf
badmin reconﬁg
badmin commands to change a queue's status (badmin qopen, badmin qclose, badmin qact, and badmin qinact)
badmin commands to change a host's status (badmin hopen and badmin hclose)
badmin perfmon start
If you use the bjobs command and do not get up-to-date information, you may want to decrease the value of MBD_REFRESH_TIME or
min_refresh_time in lsb.params to make it likely that successive job queries could get the newly submitted job information.
Note: Lowering the value of MBD_REFRESH_TIME or min_refresh_time increases the load on mbatchd and might negatively affect performance.
Procedure
1. Specify a query-dedicated port for the mbatchd by setting LSB_QUERY_PORT in lsf.conf.
2. Optional: Set an interval of time to indicate when a new child mbatchd is to be forked by setting MBD_REFRESH_TIME in lsb.params. The
default value of MBD_REFRESH_TIME is 5 seconds, and valid values are 0-300 seconds.
3. Optional: Use NEWJOB_REFRESH=Y in lsb.params to enable a child mbatchd to get up to date new job information from the parent mbatchd.
Multithread batch queries
 LSF supports multithread batch queries for several common batch query commands.
Setting a dedicated query port for mbatchd
 To change the default mbatchd behavior so that mbatchd forks a child mbatchd that can create threads, specify a port number with the
LSB_QUERY_PORT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Specify an expiry time for child mbatchds (optional)
 Conﬁgure mbatchd to push new job information to child mbatchd
 
Multithread batch queries
LSF supports multithread batch queries for several common batch query commands.
Earlier versions of LSF supported multithread for bjobs queries only, but not for other query commands. The following batch query commands do not
support multithread batch queries:
bread
bstatus
tspeek
The LSB_QUERY_ENH parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle extends multithreaded query support to other batch query commands in addition to bjobs. In
addition, the mbatchd system query monitoring mechanism starts automatically instead of being triggered by a query request. This ensures a
consistent query response time within the system.
To extend multithread queries to other batch query commands, set the LSB_QUERY_ENH=Y parameterin the lsf.conf ﬁle and use badmin mbdrestart
to make the change take effect.
Setting a dedicated query port for mbatchd
To change the default mbatchd behavior so that mbatchd forks a child mbatchd that can create threads, specify a port number with the
LSB_QUERY_PORT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
About this task
Tip:
The LSB_QUERY_PORT parameter conﬁguration works only on UNIX and Linux systems that support thread programming.
Procedure
1. Log on to the host as the primary LSF administrator.
IBM Spectrum LSF 893

2. Edit the lsf.conf ﬁle.
3. Add the LSB_QUERY_PORT parameter and specify a port number that is dedicated to receiving requests from hosts.
4. Save the lsf.conf ﬁle.
5. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
badmin mbdrestart
Specify an expiry time for child mbatchds (optional)
About this task
Use MBD_REFRESH_TIME in the lsb.params ﬁle to deﬁne how often the mbatchd daemon forks a new child mbatchd instance.
Procedure
1. Log on to the host as the primary LSF administrator.
2. Edit lsb.params.
3. Add the MBD_REFRESH_TIME parameter and specify a time interval in seconds to fork a child mbatchd instance.
The default value for this parameter is 5 seconds. Valid values are 0 - 300 seconds.
4. Save the lsb.params ﬁle.
5. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
badmin reconfig
Conﬁgure mbatchd to push new job information to child mbatchd
Before you begin
The LSB_QUERY_PORT must be deﬁned in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
About this task
If you have enabled multithreaded mbatchd support, the bjobs command might not display up-to-date information if two consecutive query
commands are issued before a child mbatchd expires because child mbatchd job information is not updated. Use the NEWJOB_REFRESH=Y in the
lsb.params ﬁle to enable a child mbatchd to get up-to-date new job information from the parent mbatchd.
When the NEWJOB_REFRESH=Y parameter is conﬁgured, the parent mbatchd daemon pushes new job information to a child mbatchd daemon. Job
queries with the bjobs command display new jobs submitted after the child mbatchd was created.
Procedure
1. Log on to the host as the primary LSF administrator.
2. Edit the lsb.params ﬁle.
3. Add the NEWJOB_REFRESH=Y parameter .
You should set the MBD_REFRESH_TIME parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle to a value greater than 10 seconds.
4. Save the lsb.params ﬁle.
5. Reconﬁgure the cluster as follows:
badmin reconfig
Specify hard CPU afﬁnity
You can also specify the management host CPUs on which mbatchd child daemon query processes can run. This so-called hard CPU afﬁnity
improves mbatchd daemon scheduling and dispatch performance by binding query processes to speciﬁc CPUs so that higher priority mbatchd
daemon processes can run more efﬁciently.
About this task
You can specify the management host CPUs on which mbatchd child query processes can run (hard CPU afﬁnity). This improves mbatchd daemon
scheduling and dispatch performance by binding query processes to speciﬁc CPUs so that higher priority mbatchd processes can run more
efﬁciently.
894    IBM Spectrum LSF

When you deﬁne the MBD_QUERY_CPUS parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle, LSF runs mbatchd child query processes only on the speciﬁed CPUs. The
operating system can assign other processes to run on the same CPU, however, if utilization of the bound CPU is lower than utilization of the unbound
CPUs.
Procedure
1. Identify the CPUs on the management host that will run mbatchd child query processes.
On Linux, get a list of valid CPUs with the following command:
/proc/cpuinfo
On Solaris, get a list of valid CPUs with the following command:
psrinfo
2. In the ﬁle lsb.params, deﬁne the parameter MBD_QUERY_CPUS.
For example, the following parameter speciﬁes that the mbatchd child query processes run only on CPU numbers 1 and 2 on the management
host:
MBD_QUERY_CPUS=1 2
You can specify CPU afﬁnity only for management hosts that use one of the following operating systems:
Linux 2.6 or higher
Solaris 10 or higher
If failover to a management host candidate occurs, LSF maintains the hard CPU afﬁnity, provided that the management host candidate has the
same CPU conﬁguration as the original management host. If the conﬁguration differs, LSF ignores the CPU list and reverts to default behavior.
3. Enable the LSF to bind a deﬁned set of LSF daemons to CPUs by deﬁning LSF_INTELLIGENT_CPU_BIND=Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
4. Verify that the mbatchd child query processes are bound to the correct CPUs on the management host.
a. Start up a query process by running a query command such as bjobs.
b. Check to see that the query process is bound to the correct CPU.
On Linux, run the command taskset -p <pid>
On Polaris, run the command ps -AP
Offloading the mbatchd daemon using the LSF rate limiter (lsfproxyd
daemon)
By default, all LSF batch commands contact the mbatchd daemon (or the mbatchd query child, if conﬁgured). When there are excessive requests,
such as scripts with tight loop running bjobs commands, mbatchd can become overloaded, negatively affecting cluster performance. Starting in Fix
Pack 14, to protect mbatchd from heavy loads, enable the LSF rate limiter (controlled by the lsfproxyd daemon), which acts as a gatekeeper
between the commands and the mbatchd daemon. The rate limiter is supported on Linux.
The rate limiter and the lsfproxyd  daemon
The rate limiter is managed by the lsfproxyd daemon, which monitors and controls the number of requests and connections that can reach the 
mbatchd daemon, protecting it from excess requests. For a request to contact mbatchd, it must ﬁrst obtain a request token from lsfproxyd. After
completing the request, the token returns to lsfproxyd. The lsfproxyd daemon distributes tokens in a round-robin fashion, ensuring that each
user connection has an fair chance to be served and processed, even under heavy loads.
You can conﬁgure to have multiple lsfproxyd daemons run within a single cluster; use the LSF_PROXY_HOSTS parameter to list the hosts on which
you want lsfproxyd daemons to run. When multiple lsfproxyd daemons are deﬁned for a cluster, they work together to balance workload and
provide high availability: the client command ﬁrst randomly picks one to use, and if an lsfproxyd daemon is unavailable, then the command locates
another one to use.
LIM controls starting and restarting the lsfproxyd daemon on the LSF hosts speciﬁed in the LSF_PROXY_HOSTS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
When the lsfproxyd daemon starts, it binds to the listening port speciﬁed by the LSF_PROXY_PORT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. LIM restarts the 
lsfproxyd daemon if it dies.
To control the number of connections to the mbatchd daemon, the lsfproxyd policy is governed by three attributes set in the PROXYD_POLICIES
parameter of the lsb.params conﬁguration ﬁle: max, nominal, and throttle. With the PROXYD_POLICIES conﬁguration, the lsfproxyd policy
ensures that users don't monopolize the rate limiter system.
For details on setting up your system for the rate limiter, and using it, see Enabling and conﬁguring the LSF rate limiter.
Daemon log ﬁles for diagnosing jobs
To troubleshoot the rate limiter and its interactions with the lsfproxyd daemon, see Diagnostics for the LSF rate limiter and lsfproxyd daemon.
IBM Spectrum LSF 895

Temporarily block users and hosts for performance
Furthermore, to allow an administrator to temporarily block non-administrator and non-root users, hosts, or both, from performing mbatchd daemon
operations when using the rate limiter, the badmin command has been extended to support badmin lsfproxyd block. Administrators can run this
command to temporarily stop abusive or misbehaving users from interacting with the LSF cluster, and to avoid performance impact on other users.
Enabling and conﬁguring the LSF rate limiter
 To use the LSF rate limiter, ﬁrst set parameters in the lsf.conf ﬁle to conﬁgure interaction with the lsfproxyd daemon, then conﬁgure the
number of connections to the rate limiter, and ﬁnally, run the badmin lsfproxyd command to control and check the rate limiter. The rate
limiter is supported on Linux.
Diagnostics for the LSF rate limiter and lsfproxyd daemon
 To troubleshoot the rate limiter and its interactions with the lsfproxyd daemon, you have various diagnostic options.
Related concepts
LSF daemons
Related tasks
Enabling daemon log ﬁles for diagnostics
Related reference
lsf.conf
DIAGNOSE_LOGDIR
ENABLE_DIAGNOSE
lsb.params
Enabling and conﬁguring the LSF rate limiter
To use the LSF rate limiter, ﬁrst set parameters in the lsf.conf ﬁle to conﬁgure interaction with the lsfproxyd daemon, then conﬁgure the number of
connections to the rate limiter, and ﬁnally, run the badmin lsfproxyd command to control and check the rate limiter. The rate limiter is supported on
Linux.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne the hosts and ports that the lsfproxyd daemon will connect to for the rate limiter. In the lsf.conf ﬁle:
a. Set the LSF_PROXYD_HOSTS="hostname ..."
For example:
LSF_PROXYD_HOSTS="hostA hostB"
See LSF_PROXYD_HOSTS for details.
b. Set LSF_PROXYD_PORT=port_number
For example:
LSF_PROXYD_PORT=1234
See LSF_PROXYD_PORT for details.
c. After setting the lsf.conf parameters, restart LIM on all hosts deﬁned in your LSF_PROXYD_HOSTS parameter by running lsdamin
limrestart.
2. The lsfproxyd policy ensures that users don't monopolize the rate limiter system, and that you can control the number of connections to
between the lsfproxyd daemon and the mbatchd daemon (or the mbatchd query child, if conﬁgured). The lsfproxyd policy is governed
by three attributes set in the PROXYD_POLICIES parameter of the lsb.params conﬁguration ﬁle: max, nominal, and throttle:
a. Set the PROXYD_POLICIES="QUERY[max=maximum_request_tokens nominal=nominal_request_tokens
throttle=request_throttle_time]"
For example, a policy of PROXYD_POLICIES="QUERY[max=50 nominal=15 THROTTLE=100]" speciﬁes:
A maximum of 50 available tokens to be distributed from the lsfproxyd daemon.
A token is distributed immediately if the number of existing tokens used less than 15.
The rate limiter waits 100 milliseconds before granting new tokens, when there are currently more than 15 in-use tokens.
Once an in-use token reaches its max value, a request (from the same category) from an non-root or non-cluster administrator
user will not be granted a token. After a certain number of retries (set by the LSF_PROXYD_NOTOKEN_NTRIES parameter value
in the lsf.conf ﬁle), the command will then not contact mbatchd and will fail with an error message. Note that requests from root
896    IBM Spectrum LSF

or LSF cluster administrators are exempt from this policy as they are always granted a token and their requests are always
counted towards the tokens currently in use.
b. After setting the PROXYD_POLICIES parameter attributes, restart mbatchd (by running badmin mbdrestart) or reconﬁgure mbatchd
(by running badmin reconﬁg).
3. Enable the rate limiter by running the badmin lsfproxyd enable all|query|sub|other command.
Once enabled, the lsfproxyd daemon distributes tokens for the speciﬁed request type. For example, to use the rate limiter for queries, run
badmin lsfproxyd enable query. If disabled, or if all lsfproxyd daemons are down, then requests without tokens will be accepted by the 
mbatchd daemon instead.
Tip: To see which type of request type is enabled for the rate limiter, run badmin lsfproxyd status. Here is an example output:
$ badmin lsfproxyd status 
lsfproxyd service status: 
  QUERY:ENABLED 
  SUBMISSION:ENABLED 
  OTHER:ENABLED 
lsfproxyd host status: 
  HOSTNAME:host1 
  STATUS:CONNECTED 
             TOKEN_LIMIT  TOKENS_IN_USE 
  QUERY      100          20 
  SUBMISSION -            - 
  OTHER      -            - 
What to do next
Additionally, you can set up log ﬁles to help diagnose the rate limiter, according to Diagnostics for the LSF rate limiter and lsfproxyd daemon.
You can also further manage the rate limiter with these optional lsf.conf conﬁguration parameters:
LSF_PROXYD_BYPASS
Determine how the mbatchd daemon responds to requests without tokens for rate limiter (lsfproxyd) requests.
LSF_PROXYD_HEARTBEAT_INTERVAL
Sets the frequency that the rate limiter sends a heartbeat message to the mbatchd daemon.
LSF_PROXYD_TOKEN_WAIT_TIME
Sets the amount of time that a rate limiter token request can age before it is considered too old.
LSF_ADDON_HOSTS
Sets any requests for tokens received from the speciﬁed hosts as privileged requests. A request for a token will be granted regardless of the
current token in use count unless the user or host has been explicitly blocked.
LSF_PROXYD_NTOKEN_NTRIES
Sets the number of times that the LSF command attempts to contact the lsfproxyd daemon after it is not granted a token before quitting.
Diagnostics for the LSF rate limiter and lsfproxyd daemon
To troubleshoot the rate limiter and its interactions with the lsfproxyd daemon, you have various diagnostic options.
Use the query_info.queryproxylog.hostname log ﬁle for diagnosing the lsfproxyd daemon. The log ﬁle shows who issued these requests, where the
requests came from, the data size of the query, the receiving and processing times, and whether the request was rejected or accepted. To enable the
logs, either statically conﬁgure the ENABLE_DIAGNOSE parameter in the lsb.parms conﬁguration ﬁle (if not deﬁned, the default LSF is used), or
dynamically enable the diagnostic logs by running the badmin diagnose -c query command, as described in Enabling daemon log ﬁles for
diagnostics.
To further help debug the lsfproxyd daemon, you can also set the debugging log class (level) for the lsfproxyd daemon, by conﬁguring the
LSF_DEBUG_PROXYD parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. For example, to set to the log level to log signiﬁcant program walk steps, run:
LSF_DEBUG_PROXYD="LC_TRACE"
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed in quotation marks. For example:
LSF_DEBUG_PROXYD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"
Additionally, if LSB_DEBUG_MBD="LC2_LSF_PROXDY" is set in the lsf.conf ﬁle, the mbatchd daemon captures information about the rate limiter 
lsfproxyd daemon requests received without a token, and logs them at the LOG_WARNING level. These warnings include the user, the request
operation code, the LSF header version, and the host from where the request originated. This can be useful information for identifying the user of old
binaries.
Related concepts
Offloading the mbatchd daemon using the LSF rate limiter (lsfproxyd daemon)
IBM Spectrum LSF 897

Logging mbatchd performance metrics
LSF provides a feature that lets you log performance metrics for mbatchd. This feature is useful for troubleshooting large clusters where a cluster
has performance problems. In such cases, mbatchd performance may be slow in handling high volume request such as:
Job submission
Job status requests
Job rusage requests
Client info requests causing mbatchd to fork
For example, the output for a large cluster may appear as follows:
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 sample period: 120 120 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 job_submission_log_jobfile logJobInfo: 14295 0  
                                 179 0 3280 0 10 0 160 0 10 0 990 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 job_submission do_submitReq: 14295 0 180 0 9409  
                                 0 100 0 4670 0 10 0 1750 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 job_status_update statusJob: 2089 0 1272 1 2840  
                                 0 10 0 170 0 10 0 120 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 job_dispatch_read_jobfile readLogJobInfo: 555 0  
                                 256 0 360 0 10 0 70 0 10 0 50 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_query_job fork: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_channel chanSelect/chanPoll: 30171 0 358 0 30037  
                                 0 10 0 3930 0 10 0 1270 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_query_host fork: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_query_queue fork: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_query_child fork: 19 155 173 160 3058 0 0 0 0  
                                 150 170 160 3040 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_other_query fork: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Nov 14 20:03:25 2012 25408 4 10.1.0 mbd_non_query_fork fork: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
In the ﬁrst line (sample period: 120 120) the ﬁrst value is the conﬁgured sample period in seconds. The second value is the real sample period in
seconds.
The format for each remaining line is:
metricsCategoryName functionName count rt_min rt_max rt_avg rt_total ut_min ut_max ut_avg ut_total st_min st_max
st_avg st_total
Where:
Count: Total number of calls to this function in this sample period
rt_min: Min runtime of one call to the function in this sample period
rt_max: Maximum runtime of one call to the function in this sample period
rt_avg: Average runtime of the calls to the function in this sample period
rt_total: Total runtime of all the calls to the function in this sample period
ut_min: Minimum user mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sample period
ut_max: Max user mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sample period
ut_avg: Average user mode CPU time of the calls to the function in this sample period
ut_total: Total user mode CPU time of all the calls to the function in this sample period
st_min: Min system mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sample period
st_max: Max system mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sample period
st_avg: Average system mode CPU time of the calls to the function in this sample period
st_total: Total system mode CPU time of all the calls to the function in this sample period
All time values are in milliseconds.
The mbatchd performance logging feature can be enabled and controlled statically through the following parameters in lsf.conf:
LSB_ENABLE_PERF_METRICS_LOG: Lets you enable or disable this feature.
LSB_PERF_METRICS_LOGDIR: Sets the directory in which performance metric data is logged.
LSB_PERF_METRICS_SAMPLE_PERIOD: Determines the sampling period for performance metric data.
For more information on these parameters, see the IBM Platform Conﬁguration Reference.
You can also enable the mbatchd performance metric logging feature dynamically with the badmin perflog command. The -t, -d and -f command
options let you specify the sample period, the duration for data logging, and the output directory. To turn off mbatchd performance metric logging,
use the badmin perflog -o command.
For more information, see badmin.
898    IBM Spectrum LSF

If you deﬁne this feature statically, performance metrics are logged in the mbatchd.perflog.<hostname> ﬁle. If you deﬁne the feature dynamically,
performance metrics are logged in the log ﬁle deﬁned in the command. If you deﬁne the feature statically, then dynamically, the data sample period,
the log ﬁle directory, and the duration will be those deﬁned by the command. After the duration expires, or you turn off the feature dynamically, the
statically deﬁned settings are restored.
Logging mbatchd and mbschd proﬁling information
LSF provides a feature to log proﬁling information for the mbatchd and mbschd daemons to track the time that the daemons spend on key functions.
This can assist IBM Support with diagnosing daemon performance problems.
To enable daemon proﬁling with the default settings, edit the lsf.conf ﬁle, then specify LSB_PROFILE_MBD=Y for the mbatchd daemon or specify
LSB_PROFILE_SCH=Y for the mbschd daemon. You can also add keywords within these parameters to further customize the daemon proﬁlers.
The proﬁle dump includes one line for each tracked function call stack, and for each thread. The format of the proﬁle dump is as follows:
PROFILE "functionName": count rt_min rt_max rt_avg rt_total ut_min ut_max ut_avg ut_total st_min st_max st_avg
st_total start_time end_time thread_id stack_depth "stack"
The following is a description of each ﬁeld:
functionName: The name of the tracked function.
count: The number of times that the function is invoked within the stack corresponding to this record, within the last sampling interval.
rt_min: The minimum runtime of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
rt_max: The maximum runtime of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
rt_avg: The average runtime of the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
rt_total: The total runtime of all the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
ut_min: The minimum user mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
ut_max: The maximum user mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
ut_avg: The average user mode CPU time of the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
ut_total: The total user mode CPU time of all the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
st_min: The minimum system mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
st_max: The maximum system mode CPU time of one call to the function in this sampling interval.
st_avg: The average system mode CPU time of the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
st_total: The total system mode CPU time of all the calls to the function in this sampling interval.
start_time: The start time of this sampling interval in UTC time.
end_time: The end time of this sampling interval in UTC time.
thread_id: The thread ID.
stack_depth: The depth of the stack.
stack: The stack trace. This is a list of function names separated by # characters.
All time values are in milliseconds.
Improve performance of mbatchd for job array switching events
You can improve mbatchd performance when switching large job arrays to another queue by enabling the JOB_SWITCH2_EVENT in lsb.params. This
lets mbatchd generate the JOB_SWITCH2 event log. JOB_SWITCH2 logs the switching of the array to another queue as one event instead of logging
the switching of each individual array element. If this parameter is not enabled, mbatchd generates the old JOB_SWITCH event instead. The
JOB_SWITCH event is generated for each array element. If the job array is very large, many JOB_SWITCH events are generated. mbatchd then
requires large amounts of memory to replay all the JOB_SWITCH events, which can cause performance problems when mbatchd starts up.
JOB_SWITCH2 has the following advantages:
Reduces memory usage of mbatchd when replaying bswitch destination_queue job_ID, where job_ID is the job ID of the job array on which to
operate.
Reduces the time for reading records from lsb.events when mbatchd starts up.
Reduces the size of lsb.events.
Management batch scheduler performance is also improved when switching large job arrays to another queue. When you bswitch a large job array,
mbatchd no longer signals mbschd to switch each job array element individually, which meant thousands of signals for a job array with thousands of
elements. The flood of signals would block mbschd from dispatching pending jobs. Now, mbatchd only sends one signal to mbschd: to switch the
whole array. mbschd is then free to dispatch pending jobs.
Increase queue responsiveness
IBM Spectrum LSF 899

You can enable DISPATCH_BY_QUEUE to increase queue responsiveness. The scheduling decision for the speciﬁed queue will be published without
waiting for the whole scheduling session to ﬁnish. The scheduling decision for the jobs in the speciﬁed queue is ﬁnal and these jobs cannot be
preempted within the same scheduling cycle.
Tip:
Only set this parameter for your highest priority queue (such as for an interactive queue) to ensure that this queue has the highest responsiveness.
Automatically bind LSF daemons to speciﬁc CPU cores
Bind a deﬁned set of LSF daemons to CPU cores to distribute CPU resources among critical functions and improve scheduling performance.
You can bind LSF daemons to speciﬁc CPU cores by setting the LSF_INTELLIGENT_CPU_BIND parameter to Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
LSF binds LSF daemons to CPU cores according to the CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁle for that host. If a CPU binding ﬁle does not exist for the host,
LIM automatically detects the topology of that host and binds the LSF daemons according to the automatic binding policy.
LSF initially detects the topology of each management host and management candidate, binds the LSF daemons according to the automatic binding
policy, and generates a CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁle for that host. These conﬁguration ﬁles are in the LSF_ENVDIR/cpu_binding directory and the ﬁle
names are in the format of host_name.cluster_name and are in the LSF_ENVDIR/cpu_binding directory. LSF binds LSF daemons to CPU cores
according to this CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁle.
If the CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁle no longer exists for the host, LIM automatically detects the topology of that host again and binds the LSF
daemons according to the automatic binding policy.
If the CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁle is changed, you must restart the LSF daemons by running the following commands in the following order to apply
the new CPU binding settings:
1. bctrld restart lim
2. bctrld restart sbd
3. badmin mbdrestart
Note: CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁles do not support comments. LSF removes any comments in the CPU binding conﬁguration ﬁles after LIM restarts.
The LSF_INTELLIGENT_CPU_BIND parameter takes precedence over other CPU binding parameters. If you enable LSF_INTELLIGENT_CPU_BIND,
LSF ignores the following parameters:
EGO_DAEMONS_CPUS
ESTIMATOR_CPUS
LSF_DAEMONS_CPUS
MBD_QUERY_CPUS
Note: Because this feature binds LSF daemons to eight CPU cores, the LSF_INTELLIGENT_CPU_BIND parameter is ignored if the management and
management candidate hosts have fewer than eight CPU cores.
Use LSF Explorer to improve the performance of the bacct and bhist
commands, or to retrieve additional data
Use LSF Explorer to get information for the bacct and bhist commands more efﬁciently, or to retrieve additional data for LSF Explorer energy
accounting or IBM Spectrum Scale I/O accounting.
You can improve the performance of the bacct and bhist commands by using IBM Spectrum LSF Explorer ("LSF Explorer") to get information instead
of parsing the lsb.acct and lsb.events ﬁles. Using LSF Explorer improves the performance of the bacct and bhist commands by avoiding the need for
parsing large log ﬁles whenever you run these commands.
You can also integrate LSF Explorer energy accounting into LSF. LSF uses LSF Explorer to collect energy data from each host by the LSF Beats
services (lsfbeat tool). The bjobs and bhosts commands can then query the data from LSF Explorer and display the job level or host level energy to
users.
If you are using IBM Spectrum Scale as the ﬁle system with LSF, you can integrate IBM Spectrum Scale job I/O accounting into LSF. LSF uses LSF
Explorer to collect IBM Spectrum Scale process-level I/O consumption and combines this LSF job information to provide job-level IBM Spectrum
Scale I/O statistics. This allows you to use LSF commands to show job level IBM Spectrum Scale disk consumption or to use LSF Explorer reports to
provide job I/O statistics over time.
To use LSF Explorer to retrieve data, you must have LSF Explorer, Version 10.2, or later, installed and working.
To enable this improvement, edit the lsf.conf ﬁle to deﬁne the LSF_QUERY_ES_SERVERS and LSF_QUERY_ES_FUNCTIONS parameters:
1. Set LSF_QUERY_ES_SERVERS="[http://ip:port|http://host_name:port]..."
If you have HTTPS enabled for Elasticsearch, then specifyLSF_QUERY_ES_SERVERS="[https://ip:port|https://ip:port]..."
900    IBM Spectrum LSF

For the ip and port values, provide a space-separated list of IP addresses and port numbers of the LSF Explorer servers that retrieve log
records.
2. Set LSF_QUERY_ES_FUNCTIONS with either of the following syntax:
LSF_QUERY_ES_FUNCTIONS="[acct]|[jobs]|[energy]|[gpfsio]
LSF_QUERY_ES_FUNCTIONS="all"
Specify the functions that are permitted to use LSF Explorer to retrieve data:
acct
If the acct function is deﬁned, the bacct command uses LSF Explorer to retrieve the accounting log records.
jobs
If the jobs function is deﬁned, the bhist command uses LSF Explorer to retrieve the event log records.
energy
If the energy function is deﬁned and LSF_ENABLE_BEAT_SERVICE="energy" is deﬁned in the lsf.conf ﬁle, the bhosts and bjobs
commands use LSF Explorer to retrieve energy data. For more details, refer to LSF_ENABLE_BEAT_SERVICE.
gpfsio
If the gpfsio function is deﬁned, the bjobs and bacct commands use LSF Explorer to retrieve IBM Spectrum Scale job accounting I/O
data.
Speciﬁcally, the bjobs -l command shows approximate accumulated job disk usage (I/O) data, the bjobs -o "gpfsio" command shows
job disk usage (I/O) data, and the bacct -l command shows the total approximate number of read/write bytes of all storage pools, all on
IBM Spectrum Scale
all
If the all keyword is deﬁned, all supported functions use LSF Explorer to retrieve data.
Note:
The bhist -cname, -t, and -T options always bypass LSF Explorer and get the information from the lsb.events ﬁle.
Use the bacct -f or bhist -f options to manually bypass LSF Explorer and instead use the speciﬁed log ﬁles. Alternatively, use the bacct
-f - or bhist -f - options to manually bypass LSF Explorer and use the lsb.acct or lsb.events log ﬁle, respectively.
Improve slot utilization by preventing bwait from running in jobs
You can deﬁne LSB_BWAIT_IN_JOBS=N in the lsf.conf ﬁle to prevent LSF from using the bwait command within a job. This prevents running jobs
from blocking slots with the bwait command, since blocking slots leads to low slot utilization. Both the bwait command and the mbatchd daemon
read this parameter, so ensure that you conﬁgure this parameter on all lsf.conf ﬁles if you have non-shared installed servers.
If the bwait command is allowed to run within a job, LSF posts the wait condition as an external status message, which means that running a query
on the job shows the wait condition.
Achieve performance and scalability
Tune LSF for large clusters and monitor performance metrics in real time. Optimize performance in large sites by tuning queries, scheduling, and
event logging.
Optimize performance in large sites
 Tune UNIX for large clusters
 Tune LSF for large clusters
 
Optimize performance in large sites
As your site grows, you must tune your LSF cluster to support a large number of hosts and an increased workload.
This chapter discusses how to efﬁciently tune querying, scheduling, and event logging in a large cluster that scales to 6000 hosts and 500,000
pending jobs at any one time.
LSF performance enhancement features
LSF provides parameters for tuning your cluster, which you will learn about in this chapter. However, before you calculate the values to use for tuning
your cluster, consider the following enhancements to the general performance of LSF daemons, job dispatching, and event replaying:
Both scheduling and querying are much faster
Switching and replaying the events log ﬁle, lsb.events, is much faster. The length of the events ﬁle no longer impacts performance
Restarting and reconﬁguring your cluster is much faster
IBM Spectrum LSF 901

Job submission time is constant. It does not matter how many jobs are in the system. The submission time does not vary.
The scalability of load updates from the server hosts to the server host has increased
Load update intervals are scaled automatically
Tune UNIX for large clusters
The following hardware and software speciﬁcations are requirements for a large cluster that supports 5,000 hosts and 100,000 jobs at any one time.
Hardware recommendation
LSF management host:
Four processors, one each for:
mbatchd
mbschd
lim
Operating system
10-GB RAM
Software requirement
To meet the performance requirements of a large cluster, increase the ﬁle descriptor limit of the operating system.
The ﬁle descriptor limit of most operating systems used to be ﬁxed, with a limit of 1024 open ﬁles. Some operating systems, such as Linux and AIX,
have removed this limit, allowing you to increase the number of ﬁle descriptors.
Increase the ﬁle descriptor limit
 
Increase the ﬁle descriptor limit
Procedure
To achieve efﬁciency of performance in LSF, follow the instructions in your operating system documentation to increase the number of ﬁle
descriptors on the LSF management host.
Tip:
To optimize your conﬁguration, set your ﬁle descriptor limit to a value at least as high as the number of hosts in your cluster.
The following is an example conﬁguration. The instructions for different operating systems, kernels, and shells are varied. You may have already
conﬁgured the host to use the maximum number of ﬁle descriptors that are allowed by the operating system. On some operating systems, the limit is
conﬁgured dynamically.
Your cluster size is 5000 hosts. Your management host is on Linux, kernel version 2.6:
a. Log in to the LSF management host as the root user.
b. Add the following line to your /etc/rc.d/rc.local startup script:
echo -n "5120" > /proc/sys/fs/file-max 
c. Restart the operating system to apply the changes.
d. In the bash shell, instruct the operating system to use the new ﬁle limits:
# ulimit -n unlimited 
Tune LSF for large clusters
To enable and sustain large clusters, you need to tune LSF for efﬁcient querying, dispatching, and event log management.
Manage scheduling performance
 The LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle, and the MAX_SBD_CONNS parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle are
set automatically during mbatchd daemon startup, to enable the fastest possible job dispatch.
Limit the number of batch queries
 Improve the speed of host status updates
902    IBM Spectrum LSF

Limit your user’s ability to move jobs in a queue
Control whether users can use btop and bbot to move jobs to the top and bottom of queues
Manage the number of pending reasons
Condense all the host-based pending reasons into one generic pending reason for efﬁcient, scalable management of pending reasons.
Achieve efﬁcient event switching
Automatic load updates
Manage I/O performance of the info directory
In large clusters, the large numbers of jobs results in a large number of job ﬁles stored in the LSF_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info
directory at any time. When the total size of the job ﬁles reaches a certain point, you will notice a signiﬁcant delay when performing I/O
operations in the info directory due to ﬁle server directory limits dependent on the ﬁle system implementation.
Job ID limit
Manage scheduling performance
The LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle, and the MAX_SBD_CONNS parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle are set
automatically during mbatchd daemon startup, to enable the fastest possible job dispatch.
The LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION value is the maximum number of job decisions that the mbschd daemon can make during one job
scheduling session. The default value is LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION = Min (MAX(300, Total CPUs), 
3000).
Sets the maximum number of open ﬁle connections between the mbatchd and sbatchd daemons.
The MAX_SBD_CONNS setting is the maximum number of open ﬁle connections between the mbatchd and sbatchd daemons. The default value is
MAX_SBD_CONNS = 2 * 
number_of_hosts + 300. This formula does not provide the exact number of sbatchd connections because it also calculates the lost and found
hosts. Therefore, the calculated number of connections might be a few more than this theoretical number.
Tip: If you enabled the IBM® Spectrum LSF resource connector, there can be many LSF server nodes joining and leaving from the LSF clusters
frequently. In this case, rather than use the default value for MAX_SBD_CONNS, deﬁne a more reasonable value. For example, set it as
MAX_SBD_CONNS = 2 * maximum_number_of_hosts + 300.
The LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION and MAX_SBD_CONNS settings affect the number of ﬁle descriptors. Although the system sets the
default values for both parameters automatically when the mbatchd daemon starts, you can adjust them manually.
To decrease the load on the management host LIM, you should not to conﬁgure the management host as the ﬁrst host for the LSF_SERVER_HOSTS
parameter.
The values for LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION and MAX_SBD_CONNS are not changed dynamically. If hosts are added dynamically,
mbatchd does not increase their values. Once all the hosts are added, you must run the badmin mbdrestart command to set the correct values. If
you know in advance that the number of hosts in your cluster will dynamically grow or shrink, then you should conﬁgure these parameters
beforehand.
Enable fast job dispatch
 Enable continuous scheduling
 Use scheduler threads to evaluate resource requirement matching
 In large-scale clusters with large numbers of hosts, you can enable resource evaluation for hosts concurrently by enabling multithreaded
resource evaluation. Set the number of threads the scheduler uses for resource requirement evaluation with the SCHEDULER_THREADS . To
set an effective value for this parameter, consider the number of available CPUs on the management host, the number of hosts in the cluster,
and the scheduling performance metrics.
Limit job dependency evaluation
 
Related tasks
Updating LSF conﬁguration for resource connector
Enable fast job dispatch
Procedure
1. Log in to the LSF management host as the root user.
2. Set LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION = Min(Max(300, Total CPUs), 3000).
3. Set MAX_SBD_CONNS equal to the number of hosts in the cluster plus 2*LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION plus a buffer of 200.
Note: The system has automatically set this for you. If not suitable, you can manually adjust it.
4. In lsf.conf, set the parameter LSB_MAX_JOB_DISPATCH_PER_SESSION to a value greater than 300 and less than or equal to one-half the
value of MAX_SBD_CONNS. Total File Descriptors = Max (Available FDs, MAX_SBD_CONNS+100)
Note: The system has automatically set this for you. If not suitable, you can still manually adjust it.
IBM Spectrum LSF 903

5. In lsf.conf, deﬁne the parameter LSF_SERVER_HOSTS to decrease the load on the management host LIM.
6. In the shell you used to increase the ﬁle descriptor limit, shut down the LSF batch daemons on the management host:
bctrld stop sbd
7. Run badmin mbdrestart to restart the LSF batch daemons on the management host.
8. Run bctrld restart sbd all to restart every sbatchd in the cluster:
Note: When you shut down the batch daemons on the management host, all LSF services are temporarily unavailable, but existing jobs are not
affected. When mbatchd is later started by sbatchd, its previous status is restored and job scheduling continues.
Enable continuous scheduling
Procedure
The scheduler is always running in a production cluster, so setting JOB_SCHEDULING_INTERVAL=0 means there is no interval between job
scheduling.
Use scheduler threads to evaluate resource requirement matching
In large-scale clusters with large numbers of hosts, you can enable resource evaluation for hosts concurrently by enabling multithreaded resource
evaluation. Set the number of threads the scheduler uses for resource requirement evaluation with the SCHEDULER_THREADS . To set an effective
value for this parameter, consider the number of available CPUs on the management host, the number of hosts in the cluster, and the scheduling
performance metrics.
Before you begin
Conﬁguring the SCHEDULER_THREADS parameter requires that you ﬁrst have the LSF_STRICT_RESREQ parameter set to Y in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
About this task
This conﬁguration is especially useful for large-scale clusters with numerous hosts. The idea is to evaluate resources for hosts concurrently. For
example, there are 6000 hosts in a cluster, so the scheduler may create six threads to complete the evaluation concurrently. Each thread is in charge
of 1000 hosts.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsb.params ﬁle.
2. Specify the value of the SCHEDULER_THREADS parameter to a number between 1 and the number of cores on the management host:
SCHEDULER_THREADS=number_of_threads
Setting this parameter to 0 means that the scheduler does not create any threads to evaluate resource requirements. This is the default
behavior.
Related reference
LSF_STRICT_RESREQ
Limit job dependency evaluation
About this task
You can set the maximum number of job dependencies mbatchd evaluates in one scheduling cycle. The EVALUATE_JOB_DEPENDENCY parameter
limits the amount of time mbatchd spends on evaluating job dependencies in a scheduling cycle, which limits the amount of time the job
dependency evaluation blocks services. Job dependency evaluation is a process that is used to check if each job's dependency condition is satisﬁed.
When a job's dependency condition is satisﬁed, it sets a ready flag and allows itself to be scheduled by mbschd.
When EVALUATE_JOB_DEPENDENCY is set, a conﬁgured number of jobs are evaluated.
Limit the number of job dependencies mbatchd evaluates in a scheduling cycle as follows:
904    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
1. Edit the lsb.params ﬁle.
2. Specify the value of the EVALUATE_JOB_DEPENDENCY parameter.
EVALUATE_JOB_DEPENDENCY=integer
Results
Starting a scheduling session triggers LSF to do job dependency evaluation. The number of jobs evaluated corresponds to the conﬁguration and the
endpoint is kept. LSF starts the job dependency evaluation from the endpoint in the next session. LSF evaluates all dependent jobs every 10 minutes
regardless of the conﬁguration for EVALUATE_JOB_DEPENDENCY.
Limit the number of batch queries
About this task
In large clusters, job querying can grow quickly. If your site sees a lot of high trafﬁc job querying, you can tune LSF to limit the number of job queries
that mbatchd can handle. This helps decrease the load on the management host.
If a job information query is sent after the limit has been reached, an error message ("Batch system concurrent query limit exceeded") is displayed
and mbatchd keeps retrying, in one second intervals. If the number of job queries later drops below the limit, mbatchd handles the query.
Procedure
1. Deﬁne the maximum number of concurrent jobs queries to be handled by mbatchd in the parameter MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY in
lsb.params:
If mbatchd is not using multithreading, the value of MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY is always the maximum number of job queries in the
cluster.
If mbatchd is using multithreading (deﬁned by the parameter LSB_QUERY_PORT in lsf.conf ), the number of job queries in the cluster
can temporarily become higher than the number speciﬁed by MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY.
This increase in the total number of job queries is possible because the value of MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY actually sets the maximum
number of queries that can be handled by each child mbatchd that is forked by mbatchd. When the new child mbatchd starts, it handles
new queries, but the old child mbatchd continues to run until all the old queries are ﬁnished. It is possible that the total number of job
queries can be as high as MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY multiplied by the number of child daemons forked by mbatchd.
2. To limit all batch queries (in addition to job queries), specify LSB_QUERY_ENH=Y in lsf.conf.
Enabling this parameter extends multithreaded query support to all batch query requests and extends the MAX_CONCURRENT_QUERY
parameter to limit all batch queries in addition to job queries.
Improve the speed of host status updates
LSF improves the speed of host status updates as follows:
Fast host status discovery after cluster startup
Multi-threaded UDP communications
Fast response to static or dynamic host status change
Simultaneously accepts new host registration
LSF features the following performance enhancements to achieve this improvement in speed:
LSB_SYNC_HOST_STAT_LIM (in lsb.params) is now enabled by default (previously, this was disabled by default), so there is no need to
conﬁgure it in the conﬁguration ﬁle. This parameter improves the speed with which mbatchd obtains host status, and therefore the speed with
which LSF reschedules rerunnable jobs: the sooner LSF knows that a host has become unavailable, the sooner LSF reschedules any
rerunnable jobs executing on that host. For example, during maintenance operations, the cluster administrator might need to shut down half
of the hosts at once. LSF can quickly update the host status and reschedule any rerunnable jobs that were running on the unavailable hosts.
Note: If you previously speciﬁed LSB_SYNC_HOST_STAT_LIM=N (to disable this parameter), change the parameter value to Y to improve
performance.
The default setting for LSB_MAX_PROBE_SBD (in lsf.conf) was increased from 2 to 20. This parameter speciﬁes the maximum number of
sbatchd instances polled by mbatchd in the interval MBD_SLEEP_TIME/10. Use this parameter in large clusters to reduce the time it takes for
mbatchd to probe all sbatchds.
Note: If you previously speciﬁed a value for LSB_MAX_PROBE_SBD that is less than 20, remove your custom deﬁnition to use the default
value of 20.
You can set a limit with MAX_SBD_FAIL (in lsb.params) for the maximum number of retries for reaching a non-responding server batch
daemon, sbatchd. If mbatchd fails to reach a host after the deﬁned number of tries, the host is considered unavailable or unreachable.
IBM Spectrum LSF 905

Limit your user’s ability to move jobs in a queue
Control whether users can use btop and bbot to move jobs to the top and bottom of queues
Procedure
Set JOB_POSITION_CONTROL_BY_ADMIN=Y in lsb.params.
Remember:
You must be an LSF administrator to set this parameter.
Results
When set, only the LSF administrator (including any queue administrators) can use bbot and btop to move jobs within a queue. A user attempting to
user bbot or btop receives the error “User permission denied.”
Manage the number of pending reasons
Condense all the host-based pending reasons into one generic pending reason for efﬁcient, scalable management of pending reasons.
Procedure
Set CONDENSE_PENDING_REASONS=Y in lsb.params.
If a job has no other main pending reason, bjobs -p or bjobs -l will display the following:
Individual host based reasons 
If you condense host-based pending reasons, but require a full pending reason list, you can run the following command:
badmin diagnose <job_ID>
Remember:
You must be an LSF administrator or a queue administrator to run this command.
Achieve efﬁcient event switching
About this task
Periodic switching of the event ﬁle can weaken the performance of mbatchd, which automatically backs up and rewrites the events ﬁle after every
1000 batch job completions. The old lsb.events ﬁle is moved to lsb.events.1, and each old lsb.events.n ﬁle is moved to lsb.events.n+1.
Procedure
Change the frequency of event switching with the following two parameters in lsb.params:
MAX_JOB_NUM speciﬁes the number of batch jobs to complete before lsb.events is backed up and moved to lsb.events.1. The default value is
1000.
MIN_SWITCH_PERIOD controls how frequently mbatchd checks the number of completed batch jobs
The two parameters work together. Specify the MIN_SWITCH_PERIOD value in seconds.
Tip:
For large clusters, set the MIN_SWITCH_PERIOD to a value equal to or greater than 600. This causes mbatchd to fork a child process that handles
event switching, thereby reducing the load on mbatchd. mbatchd terminates the child process and appends delta events to new events after the
MMIN_SWITCH_PERIOD has elapsed. If you deﬁne a value less than 600 seconds, mbatchd will not fork a child process for event switching.
Example
This instructs mbatchd to check if the events ﬁle has logged 1000 batch job completions every two hours. The two parameters can control the
frequency of the events ﬁle switching as follows:
906    IBM Spectrum LSF

After two hours, mbatchd checks the number of completed batch jobs. If 1000 completed jobs have been logged (MAX_JOB_NUM=1000), it
starts a new event log ﬁle. The old event log ﬁle is saved as lsb.events.n, with subsequent sequence number sufﬁxes incremented by 1 each
time a new log ﬁle is started. Event logging continues in the new lsb.events ﬁle.
If 1000 jobs complete after ﬁve minutes, mbatchd does not switch the events ﬁle until till the end of the two-hour period
(MIN_SWITCH_PERIOD=7200).
Automatic load updates
Periodically, the LIM daemons exchange load information. In large clusters, let LSF automatically load the information by dynamically adjusting the
period that is based on the load.
Important:
For automatic tuning of the loading interval, make sure the parameter EXINTERVAL in lsf.cluster.cluster_name ﬁle is not deﬁned. Do not conﬁgure
your cluster to load the information at speciﬁc intervals.
Manage I/O performance of the info directory
In large clusters, the large numbers of jobs results in a large number of job ﬁles stored in the LSF_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info directory at
any time. When the total size of the job ﬁles reaches a certain point, you will notice a signiﬁcant delay when performing I/O operations in the info
directory due to ﬁle server directory limits dependent on the ﬁle system implementation.
About this task
By dividing the total ﬁle size of the info directory among subdirectories, your cluster can process more job operations before reaching the total size
limit of the job ﬁles.
Note: Job script ﬁles for jobs that are stored in the jobinfo cache are not stored in the info directory, but are stored in lsb.jobinfo.events ﬁle.
Procedure
1. Use MAX_INFO_DIRS in lsb.params to create subdirectories and enable mbatchd to distribute the job ﬁles evenly throughout the
subdirectories.
MAX_INFO_DIRS=num_subdirs 
Where num_subdirs speciﬁes the number of subdirectories that you want to create under the LSF_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info
directory. Valid values are positive integers between 1 and 1024. By default, MAX_INFO_DIRS is not deﬁned.
2. Run badmin reconﬁg to create and use the subdirectories.
Note: If you enabled duplicate event logging, you must run badmin mbdrestart instead of badmin reconﬁg to restart mbatchd.
3. Run bparams -l to display the value of the MAX_INFO_DIRS parameter.
Example
MAX_INFO_DIRS=10 
mbatchd creates ten subdirectories from LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info/0 to LSB_SHAREDIR/cluster_name/logdir/info/9.
Conﬁgure a job information directory
Job ﬁle I/O operations may impact cluster performance when there are millions of jobs in a LSF cluster. You can conﬁgure LSB_JOBINFO_DIR on high
performance I/O ﬁle systems to improve cluster performance. This is separate from the LSB_SHAREDIR directory in lsf.conf. LSF will access the
directory to get the job information ﬁles. If the directory does not exist, mbatchd will try to create it. If that fails, mbatchd exits.
The LSB_JOBINFO_DIR directory must be:
Owned by the primary LSF administrator
Accessible from all hosts that can potentially become the management host
Accessible from the management host with read and write permission
Set for 700 permission
Note: Using the LSB_JOBINFO_DIR parameter will require draining the whole cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 907