currcpufreqs
Current logical CPU frequency updated by elim.frequency every 15 seconds.
Submit a job with a target CPU frequency:
By core – target CPU frequency is set to the speciﬁed frequency
By host – all CPUs in the host are set to the speciﬁed frequency
Use lshosts to display CPU frequency for a host:
# lshosts –l hostA
… 
AVAILABLE CPU FREQUENCY( GHz ): 
2.7  2.6  2.5  2.4  2.3  2.2  2.1  2.0  1.9  1.8  1.7  1.6  1.5  1.4  1.3  1.2  
CURRENT CPU FREQUENCY( GHz ): 
Frequency                 CPUs 
1.5                             0, 2, 4-6 
2.0                             1, 3, 7-8
The environment variable LSB_SUB_FREQUENCY is used by esub to set CPU frequency.
Job energy usage reporting
To enable job energy usage, set LSF_COLLECT_ENERGY_USAGE=Y in lsf.conf. By default, job energy usage reporting is not enabled
(LSF_COLLECT_ENERGY_USAGE=N). If LSF_COLLECT_ENERGY_USAGE=N, job energy usage reporting is disabled.
Jobs that require job energy usage reporting must be submitted as exclusive jobs (bsub -x).
Use bacct to display job energy consumption:
bacct –l
… 
JOB ENERGY CONSUMPTION: 
20.5kWh
Note: Only blaunch jobs will collect all energy usage for all hosts. Parallel jobs will collect energy usage for just the ﬁrst host.
Resource usage in job summary email
With EAS features enabled, using the bsub -o output_ﬁle command the output ﬁle for the Job Summary information will include the following
information on resource usage:
Resource usage summary: 
    CPU time :               0.11 sec. 
    Max Memory :             1 MB 
    Average Memory :         1.00 MB 
    Total Requested Memory : - 
    Delta Memory :           - 
 (Delta Memory is the difference between Total Requested Memory and Max Memory.) 
    Max Swap :               222 MB 
    Max Processes :          3 
    Max Threads :            4 
    Job Energy Consumption : 0.000447 kWh 
  
The output (if any) follows:
IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability
Learn how to use and manage the IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability to share resources across your LSF clusters.
Overview of the LSF multicluster capability
 Learn how multiple LSF clusters can solve problems related to ease of administration, scalability, and sites in different geographic locations.
Use the LSF multicluster capability to share resources between clusters through resource leasing or job forwarding.
Set up IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability
 Set up IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability, see system requirements and post-installation conﬁguration procedures. Learn how to
ensure the security of daemon communication and conﬁgure authentication between clusters.
IBM Spectrum LSF 917

IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability job forwarding model
In the job forwarding model, a cluster that is starving for resources sends jobs over to the cluster that has resources to spare.
Tuning IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster: best practices
Learn about best practices for tuning your LSF multicluster environment.
Overview of the LSF multicluster capability
Learn how multiple LSF clusters can solve problems related to ease of administration, scalability, and sites in different geographic locations. Use the
LSF multicluster capability to share resources between clusters through resource leasing or job forwarding.
Tip: To use application proﬁles in an LSF multicluster environment, conﬁgure the application proﬁle on both the submission and execution clusters.
The application proﬁle option that is speciﬁed for a job will be forwarded with the job. If the application proﬁle does not exist in the execution cluster,
the job pends with a special reason.
Use the bclusters -app command to see the application proﬁles conﬁgured in a remote cluster.
Beneﬁts of the LSF multicluster capability
 Within an organization, sites can have separate, independently managed LSF clusters. Having multiple LSF clusters could solve some common
problems, such as ease of administration, different geographic locations, or scalability
Beneﬁts of the LSF multicluster capability
Within an organization, sites can have separate, independently managed LSF clusters. Having multiple LSF clusters could solve some common
problems, such as ease of administration, different geographic locations, or scalability
When you have more than one cluster, it is desirable to allow the clusters to cooperate to reap the following beneﬁts of global load sharing:
Access to a diverse collection of computing resources
Enterprise grid computing becomes a reality
Get better performance and computing capabilities
Use idle machines to process jobs
Use multiple machines to process a single parallel job
Increase user productivity
Add resources anywhere and make them available to the entire organization
Plan computing resources globally based on total computing demand
Increase computing power in an economical way
A multicluster environment enables a large organization to form multiple cooperating clusters of computers so that load sharing happens not only
within clusters, but also among them. A multicluster environment enables:
Load sharing across a large numbers of hosts
Co-scheduling among clusters: Job forwarding scheduler considers remote cluster and queue availability and load before forwarding jobs.
Resource ownership and autonomy to be enforced
Non-shared user accounts and ﬁle systems to be supported
Communication limitations among the clusters to be taken into consideration in job scheduling
Set up IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability
Set up IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability, see system requirements and post-installation conﬁguration procedures. Learn how to ensure the
security of daemon communication and conﬁgure authentication between clusters.
Setup overview
 Non-uniform name spaces
 Restricted awareness of remote clusters
 Security of daemon communication
 Authentication between clusters
 Resource usage updates for MultiCluster jobs
 Global limits for job resource allocations
 Conﬁgure global limit scheduling to apply resource allocation limits to multiple clusters.
Global job IDs for forwarding and forwarded clusters using LSF multicluster capability
 Global job IDs allow an LSF multicluster environment to use the same job IDs between the forwarding and forwarded clusters, keeping the IDs
uniform. These global job IDs are unique. To guarantee unique job IDs, starting in Fix Pack 14, LSF introduces indexes for clusters, so that
each job submitted from the cluster includes an index to the ending digits of the job ID (for example, job ID 100 with an index value of 22 will
have a global job ID of 10022).
Multicluster information cache
918    IBM Spectrum LSF

Setup overview
Multicluster system requirements
 The setup procedures will guide you through conﬁguring your system to meet each requirement. However, you might ﬁnd it helpful to
understand the system requirements before you begin.
Installation and conﬁguration procedures for LSF multicluster
 There are six major tasks involved for installing and conﬁguring LSF multicluster.
Install LSF multicluster
 Multicluster ﬁles are automatically installed by LSF's regular setup program (lsﬁnstall). Install LSF and make sure each cluster works properly
as a standalone cluster before you proceed to conﬁgure multicluster capabilities.
Set common ports
 Participating clusters must use the same port numbers for the daemons LIM, RES, MBD, and SBD.
Multicluster system requirements
The setup procedures will guide you through conﬁguring your system to meet each requirement. However, you might ﬁnd it helpful to understand the
system requirements before you begin.
Requirements for participating in a multicluster environment
Each cluster that participates in an LSF multicluster environment must have a unique name.
Requirements to install a multicluster environment
You can use multicluster to link two or more LSF clusters. Then, the participating clusters can be conﬁgured to share resources.
Multicluster ﬁles are automatically installed by LSF's regular Setup program (lsﬁnstall). Install LSF and make sure each cluster works properly
as a standalone cluster before you proceed to conﬁgure multicluster.
Requirements for multicluster communication between two clusters
The local management host must be conﬁgured to communicate with the remote cluster:
The local cluster can only communicate with other clusters if they are speciﬁed in the lsf.shared ﬁle.
If the RemoteClusters section in lsf.cluster.cluster_name is deﬁned, the local cluster has a list of recognized clusters, and is
only aware of those clusters.
The local management host must be able to contact the management host of the remote cluster:
The valid management host list for remote clusters is used to locate the current management host on that cluster and ensure
that any remote host is a valid management host for its cluster. The valid management host list is deﬁned in LSF_MASTER_LIST
in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
Participating clusters must use the same port numbers for the LSF daemons LIM, RES, sbatchd and mbatchd.
Requirements for resource sharing between two clusters
The local cluster must use the same resource deﬁnitions as the remote cluster:
Clusters should have common deﬁnitions of host types, host models, and resources. Each cluster ﬁnds this information in the
lsf.shared ﬁle.
A host cannot belong to more than one cluster.
The local cluster and the remote cluster must have compatible conﬁgurations, with the resource owner sharing the resource and the
resource consumer seeking to use the resource.
Requirements for jobs to run across clusters
Users must have a valid user account in each cluster.
By default, LSF expects that the user accounts will have the same name in each cluster. If clusters do not share a ﬁle system and
common user name space, you can conﬁgure account mapping.
LSF must be able to transfer job ﬁles and data ﬁles between clusters.
Dynamic IP addressing is not supported across clusters. LSF hosts require a ﬁxed IP address to communicate with a host that belongs
to another cluster.
Installation and conﬁguration procedures for LSF multicluster
There are six major tasks involved for installing and conﬁguring LSF multicluster.
Procedure
1. Plan the cluster.
2. Establish communication between clusters.
3. Additional tasks that might be required to establish communication between clusters.
IBM Spectrum LSF 919

4. Test communication between clusters.
5. Establish resource sharing.
6. Optional tasks.
Plan the cluster (required)
Procedure
1. Read the Overview of the LSF multicluster capability to learn about how a multicluster environment can be useful to you.
2. Decide which clusters will participate. Read the Setup overview to learn about the issues that could prevent clusters from working together.
3. Decide which resources you want to share.
4. Decide how you will share the resources among clusters. Read about the various conﬁguration options available in the IBM Spectrum LSF
multicluster capability job forwarding model and the Platform LSF resource leasing model and the conﬁguration options common for each
model.
Establish communication between clusters (required)
Procedure
1. For resource sharing to work between clusters, the clusters should have common deﬁnitions of host types, host models, and resources.
Conﬁgure this information in lsf.shared.
2. To establish communication, clusters must be aware of other clusters and know how to contact other clusters. Add each cluster name and its
management host name and management host candidate names to the Cluster section of lsf.shared.
Additional tasks that might be required to establish communication between
clusters
Procedure
1. By default, LSF assumes a uniform user name space within a cluster and between clusters.
2. With multicluster, LSF daemons can use non-privileged ports. By default, LSF daemons in a multicluster environment use privileged port
authentication.
3. When using multicluster, the external client to server authentication method that is used must be the same for all clusters. The client to server
external authentication method is deﬁned in LSF_AUTH in lsf.conf.
Test communication between clusters (required)
Procedure
1. Restart each cluster using the lsadmin and badmin commands:
% bctrld restart lim all 
% badmin mbdrestart
2. To verify that multicluster is enabled, run lsclusters and bclusters:
% lsclusters 
CLUSTER_NAME    STATUS    MASTER_HOST    ADMIN    HOSTS    SERVERS 
cluster1         ok       hostA          admin1   1        1 
cluster2         ok       hostD          admin2   3        3 
% bclusters 
[Remote Batch Information] 
No local queue sending/receiving jobs from remote clusters
Establish resource sharing (required)
Procedure
1. Run a simple test of resource sharing (optional).
2. Conﬁgure resource-sharing policies between clusters.
Optional tasks
Procedure
1. By default, all the clusters in a multicluster environment are aware of all the other clusters. This makes it possible for clusters to share
resources or information. You can restrict awareness of remote clusters at the cluster level.
920    IBM Spectrum LSF

2. With multicluster, LSF daemons can use non-privileged ports (by default, LSF daemons in a multicluster environment use privileged port
authentication). You can also choose the method of daemon authentication.
3. When a local cluster requests load or host information from a remote cluster, the information is cached. If the local cluster is required to
display the same information again, LSF displays the cached information, unless the cache has expired. The expiry period for cached
information is conﬁgurable.
4. The default conﬁguration of LSF is that clusters share information about the resources used by other clusters, and the information is updated
every ﬁve minutes by the execution or provider cluster. You can disable the feature or modify how often multicluster resource usage is
updated.
5. To learn about optional features related to each conﬁguration model, read about the various conﬁguration options available in the multicluster
job forwarding model and the multicluster resource leasing model.
Install LSF multicluster
Multicluster ﬁles are automatically installed by LSF's regular setup program (lsﬁnstall). Install LSF and make sure each cluster works properly as a
standalone cluster before you proceed to conﬁgure multicluster capabilities.
Set common ports
Participating clusters must use the same port numbers for the daemons LIM, RES, MBD, and SBD.
By default, all clusters have identical settings, as shown:
LSF_LIM_PORT=7869 
LSF_RES_PORT=6878 
LSB_MBD_PORT=6881 
LSB_SBD_PORT=6882
LSF_LIM_PORT change
The default for LSF_LIM_PORT changed in LSF version 7.0 to accommodate IBM® EGO default port conﬁguration. On EGO, default ports start
with lim at 7869, and are numbered consecutively for the EGO pem, vemkd, and egosc daemons.
This is different from previous LSF releases where the default LSF_LIM_PORT was 6879. LSF res, sbatchd, and mbatchd continue to use the
default pre-version 7.0 ports 6878, 6881, and 6882.
Upgrade installation preserves existing port settings for lim, res, sbatchd, and mbatchd. EGO pem, vemkd, and egosc use default EGO ports
starting at 7870, if they do not conflict with existing lim, res, sbatchd, and mbatchd ports.
Troubleshooting
To check your port numbers, check the LSF_TOP/conf/lsf.conf ﬁle in each cluster. (LSF_TOP is the LSF installation directory. On UNIX, this is
deﬁned in the install.conﬁg ﬁle). Make sure you have identical settings in each cluster for the following parameters:
LSF_LIM_PORT
LSF_RES_PORT
LSB_MBD_PORT
LSB_SBD_PORT
Set common resource deﬁnitions
For resource sharing to work between clusters, the clusters should have common deﬁnitions of host types, host models, and resources. Each cluster
ﬁnds this information in lsf.shared, so the best way to conﬁgure multicluster is to make sure lsf.shared is identical for each cluster. If you do not have
a shared ﬁle system, replicate lsf.shared across all clusters.
If it is impossible to have the same lsf.shared ﬁle for all clusters, LSF still allows for different host types, host models or resources in the lsf.shared
ﬁle. In this case, the general rules for MC resource conﬁguration are:
1. Local cluster information overrides remote cluster information (host type, host model, or resource attributes and order of speciﬁcation in
conﬁguration ﬁles).
2. The local cluster ignores remote cluster conﬁguration if the remote type/host model/resource does not exist in local cluster.
Deﬁne participating clusters and valid management hosts
To enable multicluster, deﬁne all participating clusters in the Cluster section of the LSF_TOP/conf/lsf.shared ﬁle.
1. For ClusterName, specify the name of each participating cluster. On UNIX, each cluster name is deﬁned by LSF_CLUSTER_NAME in the
install.conﬁg ﬁle.
2. For Servers, specify the management host and optionally candidate management hosts for the cluster. A cluster will not participate in
multicluster resource sharing unless its current management host is listed here.
IBM Spectrum LSF 921

Example
Begin Cluster 
ClusterName  Servers  
Cluster1     (hostA hostB) 
Cluster2     (hostD) 
End Cluster 
In this example, hostA should be the management host of Cluster1 with hostB as the backup, and hostD should be 
the management host of Cluster2. If the management host fails in Cluster1, MultiCluster will still work because 
the backup management host is also listed here. However, if the management host fails in Cluster2, MultiCluster 
will not recognize any other host as the management host, so Cluster2 will no longer participate in 
MultiCluster resource sharing.
Non-uniform name spaces
By default, LSF assumes a uniform user name space within a cluster and between clusters.
User account mapping
To support the execution of batch jobs across non-uniform user name spaces between clusters, LSF allows user account mapping.
File transfer
By default, LSF uses lsrcp for ﬁle transfer (bsub -f option),
Tip:
The lsrcp utility depends on a uniform user ID in different clusters.
Account mapping between clusters
By default, LSF assumes a uniform user name space within a cluster and between clusters. To support the execution of batch jobs across non-
uniform user name spaces between clusters, LSF allows user account mapping.
For a job submitted by one user account in one cluster to run under a different user account on a host that belongs to a remote cluster, both the local
and remote clusters must have the account mapping properly conﬁgured. System-level account mapping is conﬁgured by the LSF administrator,
while user-level account mapping can be conﬁgured by LSF users.
System-level account mapping
You must be an LSF administrator to conﬁgure system level account mapping.
System-level account mapping is deﬁned in the UserMap section of lsb.users. The submission cluster proposes a set of user mappings (deﬁned using
the keyword export) and the execution cluster accepts a set of user mappings (deﬁned using the keyword import). For a user’s job to run, the
mapping must be both proposed and accepted.
Example
lsb.users on cluster1:
Begin UserMap 
LOCAL    REMOTE                             DIRECTION 
user1    user2@cluster2                     export 
user3    (user4@cluster2 user6@cluster2)    export 
End UserMap 
lsb.users on cluster2:
Begin UserMap 
LOCAL            REMOTE                   DIRECTION 
user2            user1@cluster1           import 
(user6 user8)    user3@cluster1           import 
End UserMap 
Cluster1 conﬁgures user1 to run jobs as user2 in cluster2, and user3 to run jobs as user4 or user6 in cluster2.
Cluster2 conﬁgures user1 from cluster1 to run jobs as user2, and user3 from cluster1 to run jobs as user6 or user8.
Only mappings conﬁgured in both clusters work. The common account mappings are for user1 to run jobs as user2, and for user3 to run jobs as
user6. Therefore, these mappings work, but the mappings of user3 to users 4 and 8 are only half-done and so do not work.
User-level account mapping
 
922    IBM Spectrum LSF

User-level account mapping
Procedure
To set up your own account mapping, set up a .lsfhosts ﬁle in your home directory with Owner Read-Write permissions only.
Do not give other users and groups permissions on this ﬁle.
Tip:
Account mapping can specify cluster names in place of host names.
Example #1
You have two accounts: user1 on cluster1, and user2 on cluster2. To run jobs in either cluster, conﬁgure .lsfhosts as shown.
On each host in cluster1:
% cat ~user1/.lsfhosts 
cluster2 user2 
On each host in cluster2:
% cat ~user2/.lsfhosts 
cluster1 user1 
Example #2
You have the account user1 on cluster1, and want to run jobs on cluster2 under the lsfguest account. Conﬁgure .lsfhosts as shown.
On each host in cluster1:
% cat ~user1/.lsfhosts 
cluster2 lsfguest send 
On each host in cluster2:
% cat ~lsfguest/.lsfhosts 
cluster1 user1 recv 
Example #3
You have a uniform account name (user2) on all hosts in cluster2, and a uniform account name (user1) on all hosts in cluster1 except
hostX. On hostX, you have the account name user99.
To use both clusters transparently, conﬁgure .lsfhosts in your home directories on different hosts as shown.
On hostX in cluster1:
% cat ~user99/.lsfhosts 
cluster1    user1 
hostX       user99 
cluster2    user2 
On every other host in cluster1:
% cat ~user1/.lsfhosts 
cluster2    user2 
hostX       user99 
On each host in cluster2:
% cat ~user2/.lsfhosts 
cluster1    user1 
hostX       user99 
Restricted awareness of remote clusters
By default, all the clusters in a MultiCluster environment are aware of all the other clusters. This makes it possible for clusters to share resources or
information when you conﬁgure MultiCluster links between them.
You can restrict awareness of remote clusters at the cluster level, by listing which of the other clusters in the MultiCluster environment are allowed to
interact with the local cluster. In this case, the local cluster cannot display information about unrecognized clusters and does not participate in
MultiCluster resource sharing with unrecognized clusters.
How it works
IBM Spectrum LSF 923

By default, the local cluster can obtain information about all other clusters speciﬁed in lsf.shared. The default behavior of RES is to accept requests
from all the clusters in lsf.shared.
If the RemoteClusters section in lsf.cluster.cluster_name is deﬁned, the local cluster has a list of recognized clusters, and is only aware of those
clusters. The local cluster is not aware of the other clusters in the MultiCluster environment:
The cluster does not forward jobs to unrecognized clusters, even if a local queue is conﬁgured to do so.
The cluster does not borrow resources from unrecognized clusters, even if the remote cluster has exported the resources.
The cluster does not export resources to unrecognized clusters, even if the local resource export section is conﬁgured to do to.
The cluster does not receive jobs from unrecognized clusters, even if a local queue is conﬁgured to do so.
The cluster cannot view information about unrecognized clusters.
However, remote clusters might still be aware of this cluster:
Unrecognized clusters can view information about this cluster.
Unrecognized clusters can send MultiCluster jobs to this cluster (they will be rejected, even if a local queue is conﬁgured to accept them).
Unrecognized clusters can export resources to this cluster (this cluster will not use the resources, even if a local queue is conﬁgured to import
them).
Example
This example illustrates how the RemoteClusters list works.
The MultiCluster environment consists of 4 clusters with a common lsf.shared:
CLUSTERS 
cluster1 
cluster2 
cluster3 
cluster4 
In addition, cluster2 is conﬁgured with a RemoteClusters list in lsf.cluster.cluster_name:
Begin RemoteClusters 
CLUSTERNAME 
cluster3 
cluster4 
End RemoteClusters 
Because of the RemoteClusters list, local applications in cluster2 are aware of cluster3 and cluster4, but not cluster1. For example, if you view
information or conﬁgure queues using the keyword all, LSF will behave as if you speciﬁed the list of recognized clusters instead of all clusters in
lsf.shared.
Add or modify RemoteClusters list
 
Add or modify RemoteClusters list
About this task
You must have cluster administrator privileges in the local cluster to perform this task.
Procedure
1. Open lsf.cluster.cluster_name of the local cluster.
2. If it does not already exist, create the RemoteClusters section as shown:
Begin RemoteClusters 
CLUSTERNAME 
... 
End RemoteClusters 
3. Edit the RemoteClusters section. Under the heading CLUSTERNAME, specify the names of the remote clusters that you want the local
cluster recognize.
These clusters must also be listed in lsf.shared, so the RemoteClusters list is always a subset of the clusters list in lsf.shared.
924    IBM Spectrum LSF

Security of daemon communication
About this task
LSF daemons in a MultiCluster environment use privileged port authentication by default. LSF mbatchd and lim daemons can be conﬁgured to
communicate over non-privileged ports. If disabling the privileged port authentication makes you concerned about the security of daemon
authentication, you can use an eauth program to enable any method of authentication for secure communication between clusters.
Conﬁguring an eauth or setting LSF_MC_NON_PRIVILEGED_PORTS to N disables privileged port authentication.
Note:
Windows does not use privileged ports for authentication.
Requirements
All clusters must be conﬁgured to use non-privileged ports for LSF daemon communication.
If you use a ﬁrewall, it must accept incoming communication from non-privileged source ports if the destination ports are the LIM port
conﬁgured LSF_LIM_PORT in lsf.conf and mbatchd port conﬁgured in LSB_MBD_PORT in lsf.conf.
If you use a ﬁrewall, it must allow outgoing communication from non-privileged source ports to non-privileged destination ports.
Procedure
1. To make LSF daemons use non-privileged ports, edit lsf.conf in every cluster as shown:
LSF_MC_NON_PRIVILEGED_PORTS=Y
2. To make the changes take effect, restart the management host LIM and MBD in every cluster, and the LIM on all management host candidates.
For example, if a cluster’s management host is hostA and management host candidate is hostB, run the following commands in that cluster:
bctrld restart lim hostA 
bctrld restart lim hostB 
badmin mbdrestart
Authentication between clusters
About this task
Because this is conﬁgured for individual clusters, not globally, different cluster pairs can use different systems of authentication. You use a different
eauth program for each different authentication mechanism.
Procedure
For extra security, you can use any method of external authentication between any two clusters in the MultiCluster grid.
If no common external authentication method has been conﬁgured, two clusters communicate with the default security, which is privileged
port authentication.
eauth executables
About this task
Contact IBM for more information about the eauth programs that IBM distributes to allow LSF to work with different security mechanisms. If you
already have an eauth that works with LSF for daemon authentication within the cluster, use a copy of it.
If different clusters use different methods of authentication, set up multiple eauth programs.
Procedure
1. Copy the corresponding eauth program to LSF_SERVERDIR.
2. Name the eauth program eauth.method_name.
If you happen to use the same eauth program for daemon authentication within the cluster, you should have two copies, one named eauth
(used by LSF) and one named eauth.method_name (used by MultiCluster).
MultiCluster conﬁguration
IBM Spectrum LSF 925

Procedure
1. Edit the lsf.cluster.cluster_name RemoteClusters section.
If the cluster does not already include a RemoteClusters list, you must add it now. To maintain the existing compatibility, specify all remote
clusters in the list, even if the preferred method of authentication is the default method.
2. If necessary, add the AUTH column to the RemoteClusters section.
3. For each remote cluster, specify the preferred authentication method. Set AUTH to method_name (using the same method name that
identiﬁes the corresponding eauth program). For default behavior, specify a dash (-).
4. To make the changes take effect in a working cluster, run the following commands:
bctrld restart lim management_host  
bctrld restart lim management_candidate_host  
badmin mbdrestart 
Repeat the steps for each cluster that will use external authentication, making sure that the conﬁgurations of paired-up clusters match.
Conﬁguration example
In this example, Cluster1 and Cluster2 use Kerberos authentication with each other, but not with Cluster3. It does not matter how Cluster3 is
conﬁgured, because without a common authentication method between clusters no communication occurs.
RECV_FROM set to Y indicates the local cluster accepts parallel jobs that originate in a remote cluster.
EQUIV set to Y changes the default behavior of LSF commands and utilities and causes them to automatically return load (lsload(1)), host
(lshosts(1)), or placement (lsplace(1)) information about the remote cluster as well as the local cluster, even when you don’t specify a cluster name.
Cluster1
lsf.cluster.cluster1:
Begin RemoteClusters 
CLUSTERNAME  EQUIV   CACHE_INTERVAL   RECV_FROM   AUTH 
cluster2       Y           60            Y        KRB 
cluster3       N           30            N         - 
End RemoteClusters 
LSF_SERVERDIR in Cluster1 includes an eauth executable named eauth.KRB.
Cluster2
lsf.cluster.cluster2:
Begin RemoteClusters 
CLUSTERNAME  EQUIV   CACHE_INTERVAL   RECV_FROM   AUTH 
cluster1       Y           60            Y        KRB 
cluster3       N           30            N         - 
End RemoteClusters 
LSF_SERVERDIR in Cluster2 includes an eauth executable named eauth.KRB.
Resource usage updates for MultiCluster jobs
Upon installation, the default conﬁguration of LSF is that clusters share information about the resources used by other clusters, and the information
is updated every 5 minutes by the execution or provider cluster. You can disable the feature or modify how often MultiCluster resource usage is
updated. Depending on load, updating the information very frequently can affect the performance of LSF.
Conﬁgure resource usage updates for MultiCluster jobs
To change the timing of resource usage updating between clusters, set MC_RUSAGE_UPDATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params in the execution or provider
cluster. Specify how often to update the information to the submission or consumer cluster, in seconds.
To disable LSF resource usage updating between clusters, specify zero:
MC_RUSAGE_UPDATE_INTERVAL=0 
Global limits for job resource allocations
Conﬁgure global limit scheduling to apply resource allocation limits to multiple clusters.
Before you begin
926    IBM Spectrum LSF

Batch features for the LSF multicluster capability, job forward mode, or lease mode are not required to use global limits. Therefore, you can use
global limit scheduling if you have multiple LSF clusters without using the LSF multicluster capability.
However, job group limits, which are needed to limit the forwarded jobs, requires the use of the job forward mode for the LSF multicluster capability.
About this task
When using global limit scheduling, job group limits are still applied when the jobs are forwarded to another cluster.
Global limits support both the compete and evenly distribution policies.
Conﬁgure global limits
 Enable global limits by specifying the GLOBAL_LIMITS parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. Deﬁne global limits in the Limit section of the
lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle.
View the global limits
 The blimits -gl command option displays global limits.
Conﬁgure global limits
Enable global limits by specifying the GLOBAL_LIMITS parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle. Deﬁne global limits in the Limit section of the
lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle.
Before you begin
To use global limits, you must ensure that the LSB_GPD_PORT and LSB_GPD_CLUSTER parameters are deﬁned correctly in the lsf.conf ﬁle for the
gpolicyd daemon.
Procedure
1. Edit the lsb.params ﬁle and deﬁne the GLOBAL_LIMITS parameter to enable global limit scheduling among all clusters.
GLOBAL_LIMITS=Y
2. Edit the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle and specify the global resource allocation limits in the Limit section.
Specify global resource allocations the same way you would specify local resource allocation limits in the Limit sections of the lsb.resources
ﬁle.
For example, to conﬁgure global limits using the horizontal format,
Begin Limit  
NAME                = limit1  
USERS               = ugroup1 ~user1  
JOBS                = 12  
End Limit
View the global limits
The blimits -gl command option displays global limits.
Procedure
1. Run the blimits -gl command option to display the current usage of global limits.
LSF calls the gpolicyd daemon to get the global limits usage information.
2. Run the blimits -gl -c command option to display the global limits conﬁguration.
$ blimits -gl -c 
Begin Limit  
NAME                = limit1  
USERS               = ugroup1 ~user1  
JOBS                = 12  
End Limit
IBM Spectrum LSF 927

Global job IDs for forwarding and forwarded clusters using LSF
multicluster capability
Global job IDs allow an LSF multicluster environment to use the same job IDs between the forwarding and forwarded clusters, keeping the IDs
uniform. These global job IDs are unique. To guarantee unique job IDs, starting in Fix Pack 14, LSF introduces indexes for clusters, so that each job
submitted from the cluster includes an index to the ending digits of the job ID (for example, job ID 100 with an index value of 22 will have a global job
ID of 10022).
About this task
To conﬁgure global job IDs for your LSF multicluster environment, add an index column to the lsf.shared conﬁguration ﬁle, then as a best practice,
increase both the MAX_JOBID value in the lsb.params ﬁle (to 99999999) and the LSB_JOBID_DISP_LENGTH value in the lsf.conf ﬁle (to 8).
Procedure
1. Log on to any host in the cluster as the LSF administrator.
2. Edit the lsf.shared conﬁguration ﬁle:
a. Add new column called Index to the Cluster section and assign indexes for each cluster. The index can be a number from 1-99, and
must be unique to the other clusters within the same cluster group.
For example:
Begin Cluster 
ClusterName  Servers        Index  
cluster1     (hostA hostB)  1 
cluster2     (hostD)        2 
End Cluster 
Tip: Typically, the lsf.shared ﬁle is centrally located so than any changes can be accessed by all clusters; however, if you do not have a
shared system, then ensure that you update the lsf.shared ﬁle on each cluster.
With the Index column set, the cluster reading the conﬁguration generates global job IDs ending with the index. Also, when jobs are
forwarded to the cluster, the cluster will try to match the job ID with the index conﬁgured. If the index does not match the job ID, the
job will be rejected from the cluster. If the index matches the job ID, the job will then be accepted as the same job ID given from the
forwarding cluster. If the job ID has already been used, the job ID will be changed to end in 00.
Starting in Fix Pack 15, for hybrid global job IDs and non-global job IDs, you can specify a hyphen (-) (instead of a number between 1-
99), to be conﬁgured in the Index column. In this case, also ensure that the MC_STRICT_JOBID_CHECKING parameter is set to N in the
lsb.params ﬁle. By Default MC_STRICT_JOBID_CHECKING is set to N. Forwarded jobs not matching the cluster index set in the
lsf.shared ﬁle, will by default be allowed to run on the execution host. Typically this parameter is left as N; however you can set it to N to
enable the previous behavior.
b. Save the changes to the lsf.shared ﬁle.
c. Run lsadmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure LIM.
d. Run badmin reconﬁg to reconﬁgure the mbatchd daemon.
3. To maximize the number of available global job IDs that LSF can assign, as a best practice, increase both the MAX_JOBID value in the
lsb.params ﬁle (to 99999999) and the LSB_JOBID_DISP_LENGTH value in the lsf.conf ﬁle (to 8).
4. To view the new index column, run the lscluster cluster_name command to see all conﬁguration information for your cluster (including the
new column).
Here is example output from running lscluster hostA:
CLUSTER_NAME   STATUS   MASTER_HOST           ADMIN    HOSTS  SERVERS INDEX 
cluster1       ok       hostA                 jsmith   1      1       1 
Related reference
MAX_JOBID
lsb.params
LSB_JOBID_DISP_LENGTH
lsf.conf
Multicluster information cache
When a local cluster LIM requests load or host information from a remote cluster using commands such as lsload or lshosts, the information is
cached. If the local cluster is required to display the same information again, LSF displays the cached information, unless the cache has expired.
928    IBM Spectrum LSF

The expiry period for cached LIM information is conﬁgurable, so you can view more up-to-date information if you don’t mind connecting to the
remote cluster more often.
It is more efﬁcient to get information from a local cluster than from a remote cluster. Caching remote cluster information locally minimizes excessive
communication between clusters.
Cache thresholds
The cache threshold is the maximum time that remote cluster information can remain in the local cache.
There are two cache thresholds, one for load information, and one for host information. The threshold for host information is always double the
threshold for load information.
By default, cached load information expires after 60 seconds and cached host information expires after 120 seconds.
How it works
When a local cluster requests load or host information from a remote cluster, the information is cached by the local management host LIM.
When the local cluster is required to display the same information again, LSF evaluates the age of the information in the cache.
If the information has been stored in the local cluster for longer than the speciﬁed time, LSF contacts the remote cluster again, updates the
cache, and displays current information.
If the age of the cached information is less than the threshold time, LSF displays the cached information.
Conﬁgure cache threshold
Set CACHE_INTERVAL in the RemoteClusters section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name, and specify the number of seconds to cache load information.
IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability job forwarding model
In the job forwarding model, a cluster that is starving for resources sends jobs over to the cluster that has resources to spare.
Job forwarding model overview
Job scheduling under the job forwarding model
Queue scheduling parameters under job forwarding model
Advance reservations across clusters
Users can create and use advance reservation for the multicluster job forwarding model. To enable this feature, you must upgrade all clusters
to LSF 10.1.0 or later.
Special considerations under job forwarding model
Queues for the LSF multicluster capability
By default, clusters do not share resources, even if the LSF multicluster capability is installed. To enable job forwarding, enable queues for the
LSF multicluster capability in both the submission and execution clusters.
Remote-only queues
Request a speciﬁc cluster
Remote cluster equivalency
Remote Resources
Remote queue workload job-forwarding scheduler
Pre-exec retry threshold
Retry threshold and suspend notiﬁcation
Pending MultiCluster job limit
Update pending reason for MultiCluster jobs
Remote timeout limit
Enable job priority in MultiCluster job forward mode
Enhance fair share calculation to include the job forwarding mode
You can enhance the calculations for the fair share policies to account for the forwarding mode in the LSF multicluster capability, which
charges the user priority for each job forwarded, providing a fair opportunity for all users to forward their jobs. This policy charges the priority
of the user whose job is successfully forwarded to the remote execution cluster, and restores the charge for the user whose job is returned
from the remote execution cluster.
Job forwarding model overview
In this model, the cluster that is starving for resources sends jobs over to the cluster that has resources to spare. Job status, pending reason, and
resource usage are returned to the submission cluster. When the job is done, the exit code returns to the submission cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 929

Tracking
bhosts
By default, bhosts shows information about hosts and resources that are available to the local cluster and information about jobs that are
scheduled by the local cluster.
bjobs
The bjobs command shows all jobs associated with hosts in the cluster, including MultiCluster jobs. Jobs from remote clusters can be
identiﬁed by the FROM_HOST column, which shows the remote cluster name and the submission or consumer cluster job ID in the format
host_name@remote_cluster_name:remote_job_ID.
If the MultiCluster job is running under the job forwarding model, the QUEUE column shows a local queue, but if the MultiCluster job is running
under the resource leasing model, the name of the remote queue is shown in the format queue_name@remote_cluster_name.
You can use the local job ID and cluster name (for example, bjobs 123@submission_cluster_name) to see the job IDs for the submission,
execution and lease clusters. For job arrays, the query syntax is bjobs "submission_job_id[index]"@submission_cluster_name.
Use -w or -l to prevent the MultiCluster information from being truncated.
Use -fwd from the submission cluster to ﬁlter output to display forwarded jobs, including the forwarded time and the name of the cluster to
which the job was forwarded. -fwd can be used with other options to further ﬁlter the results. For example, bjobs -fwd -r displays only
forwarded running jobs.
% bjobs -fwd 
JOBID USER    STAT QUEUE  EXEC_HOST JOB_NAME   CLUSTER  FORWARD_TIME 
123   lsfuser RUN  queue1 hostC     sleep 1234 cluster3 Nov 29 14:08
The -fwd option cannot be used together with the following bjobs options: -A, -d, -sla, -ss.
When used with -x, the -fwd option shows forwarded job information only for exceptions conﬁgured in lsb.queues of the submission cluster.
To see exceptions on the execution cluster, use bjobs -m execution_cluster -x.
When bjobs -m is followed by cluster name, a user message is displayed. The message is only about the host and host group. There is no
cluster reference (bjobs -m <cluster name> -fwd does not display the job running on the cluster).
bclusters
Displays remote resource provider and consumer information, resource flow information, and connection status between the local and remote
cluster.
Use -app to view available application proﬁles in remote clusters.
Information related to the job forwarding model is displayed under the heading Job Forwarding Information.
LOCAL_QUEUE: Name of a local MultiCluster send-jobs or receive-jobs queue.
JOB_FLOW: Indicates direction of job flow.
send
The local queue is a MultiCluster send-jobs queue (SNDJOBS_TO is deﬁned in the local queue).
recv
The local queue is a MultiCluster receive-jobs queue (RCVJOBS_FROM is deﬁned in the local queue).
REMOTE: For send-jobs queues, shows the name of the receive-jobs queue in a remote cluster.
For receive-jobs queues, always “-”.
CLUSTER: For send-jobs queues, shows the name of the remote cluster containing the receive-jobs queue.
For receive-jobs queues, shows the name of the remote cluster that can send jobs to the local queue.
STATUS: Indicates the connection status between the local queue and remote queue.
ok
The two clusters can exchange information and the system is properly conﬁgured.
disc
Communication between the two clusters has not been established. This could occur because there are no jobs waiting to be
dispatched, or because the remote management host cannot be located.
reject
The remote queue rejects jobs from the send-jobs queue. The local queue and remote queue are connected and the clusters
communicate, but the queue-level conﬁguration is not correct. For example, the send-jobs queue in the submission cluster
points to a receive-jobs queue that does not exist in the remote cluster.
If the job is rejected, it returns to the submission cluster.
For example, consider the following application proﬁle conﬁgurations:
On the submission cluster (Cluster1) in the lsb.applications ﬁle:
930    IBM Spectrum LSF

Begin Application 
NAME         = fluent 
DESCRIPTION  = FLUENT Version 6.2 
CPULIMIT     = 180/bp860-10      # 3 hours of host hostA 
FILELIMIT    = 20000 
DATALIMIT    = 20000          # jobs data segment limit 
CORELIMIT    = 20000 
PROCLIMIT    = 5              # job processor limit 
PRE_EXEC     = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_pre >> /tmp/pre.out 
POST_EXEC    = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_post |grep -v "Hi" 
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES = 55 34 78 
End Application 
Begin Application 
NAME         = catia 
DESCRIPTION  = CATIA V5 
CPULIMIT     = 24:0/bp860-10     # 24 hours of host hostA 
FILELIMIT    = 20000 
DATALIMIT    = 20000           # jobs data segment limit 
CORELIMIT    = 20000 
PROCLIMIT    = 5              # job processor limit 
PRE_EXEC     = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_pre >> /tmp/pre.out 
POST_EXEC    = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_post |grep -v "Hi" 
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES = 55 34 78 
End Application 
Begin Application 
NAME         = djob 
DESCRIPTION  = distributed jobs 
FILELIMIT    = 20000 
DATALIMIT    = 2000000          # jobs data segment limit 
RTASK_GONE_ACTION="KILLJOB_TASKEXIT IGNORE_TASKCRASH" 
DJOB_ENV_SCRIPT   = /lsf/djobs/proj_1/djob_env 
DJOB_RU_INTERVAL  = 300 
DJOB_HB_INTERVAL  = 30 
DJOB_COMMFAIL_ACTION="KILL_TASKS" 
End Application
On the execution cluster (Cluster2) in the lsb.applications ﬁle:
Begin Application 
NAME         = dyna 
DESCRIPTION  = ANSYS LS-DYNA 
CPULIMIT     = 8:0/amd64dcore   # 8 hours of host model SunIPC 
FILELIMIT    = 20000 
DATALIMIT    = 20000          # jobs data segment limit 
CORELIMIT    = 20000 
PROCLIMIT    = 5              # job processor limit 
PRE_EXEC     = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_pre >> /tmp/pre.out 
POST_EXEC    = /usr/local/lsf/misc/testq_post |grep -v "Hi" 
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES = 55 255 78 
End Application 
Begin Application 
NAME         = default 
DESCRIPTION  = global defaults 
CORELIMIT    = 0              # No core files 
STACKLIMIT   = 200000         # Give large default 
RERUNNABLE   = Y              # 
RES_REQ      = order[mem:ut]  # change the default ordering method 
End Application
Verify that MultiCluster is enabled:
lsclusters 
CLUSTER_NAME   STATUS   MASTER_HOST           ADMIN    HOSTS  SERVERS 
cluster1       ok       management_c1             admin     1      1 
cluster2       ok       management_c2             admin     2      2
View available applications on remote clusters from the submission cluster (Cluster1):
bclusters -app 
REMOTE_CLUSTER  APP_NAME        DESCRIPTION 
cluster2        dyna            ANSYS LS-DYNA 
cluster2        default         global defaults
View available applications on remote clusters from the execution cluster (Cluster2):
bclusters -app 
REMOTE_CLUSTER  APP_NAME        DESCRIPTION 
cluster1        catia           CATIA V5 
cluster1        fluent          FLUENT Version 6.2 
cluster1        djob            distributed jobs
IBM Spectrum LSF 931

Job scheduling under the job forwarding model
About this task
With this model, scheduling of MultiCluster jobs is a process with two scheduling phases:
Procedure
the submission cluster selects a suitable remote receive-jobs queue, and forwards the job to it
the execution cluster selects a suitable host and dispatches the job to it.
If a suitable host is not found immediately, the job remains pending in the execution cluster, and is evaluated again the next scheduling cycle.
This method automatically favors local hosts; a MultiCluster send-jobs queue always attempts to ﬁnd a suitable local host before considering
a receive-jobs queue in another cluster.
Phase I, local scheduling phase (all jobs)
Procedure
1. The send-jobs queue receives the job submission request from a user.
2. The send-jobs queue parameters affect whether or not the job is accepted. For example, a job that requires 100 MB memory will be rejected if
queue-level parameters specify a memory limit of only 50 MB.
3. If the job is accepted, it becomes pending in the send-jobs queue with a job ID assigned by the submission cluster.
4. During the next scheduling cycle, the send-jobs queue attempts to place the job on a host in the submission cluster. If a suitable host is found,
the job is dispatched locally.
5. If the job cannot be placed locally (local hosts may not satisfy its resource requirements, or all the local hosts could be busy), the send-jobs
queue attempts to forward the job to another cluster.
Phase II, job forwarding phase (MultiCluster submission queues only)
Procedure
1. The send-jobs queue has a list of remote receive-jobs queues that it can forward jobs to. If a job cannot be placed locally, the send-jobs queue
evaluates each receive-jobs queue. All queues that will accept more MultiCluster jobs are candidates. To ﬁnd out how many additional
MultiCluster jobs a queue can accept, subtract the number of MultiCluster jobs already pending in the queue from the queue’s pending
MultiCluster job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG).
2. To enable LSF MulCluster job forwarding, uncomment schmod_mc in lsb.modules.
3. If information available to the submission cluster indicates that the ﬁrst queue is suitable, LSF forwards the job to that queue.
a. By default, only queue capacity is considered and the ﬁrst queue evaluated is the one that has room to accept the most new
MultiCluster jobs.
b. When MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE=Y is set, boolean resource requirements and available remote resources are considered.
Tip: When MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE is deﬁned, only the following resource requirements (boolean only) are supported: -R
"type==type_name", -R "same[type]", and -R "deﬁned(resource_name)"
c. When MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE is deﬁned, remote resources are considered as for MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE=Y, and
the scheduler is enhanced to consider remote queue preemptable jobs, queue priority, and queue workload, based on the settings
selected.
d. If TASKLIMIT is deﬁned in the remote cluster (in lsb.applications for the application proﬁle or lsb.queues for the receive queue), the
TASKLIMIT settings are considered.
If the remote application's TASKLIMIT in the remote cluster cannot satisfy the job's processor requirements for an application
proﬁle, the job is not forwarded to that cluster.
If the remote application's TASKLIMIT cannot satisfy the receive queue's TASKLIMIT in the remote cluster, the job is not
forwarded to that remote queue.
If the receive queue's TASKLIMIT in the remote cluster cannot satisfy the job's processor requirements, the job is not forwarded
to that remote queue.
4. If the ﬁrst queue is not suitable, LSF considers the next queue.
5. If LSF cannot forward the job to any of the receive-jobs queues, the job remains pending in the send-jobs cluster and is evaluated again during
the next scheduling cycle.
Phase III, remote scheduling phase (MultiCluster jobs only)
Procedure
1. The receive-jobs queue receives the MultiCluster job submission.
2. The receive-jobs queue parameters affect whether or not the job is accepted. For example, a job that requires 100 MB memory will be
rejected if queue-level parameters specify a memory limit of only 50 MB.
932    IBM Spectrum LSF

3. If the job is rejected, it returns to the submission cluster.
4. If the job is accepted, it becomes pending in the receive-jobs queue with a new job ID assigned by the execution cluster.
5. During the next scheduling cycle, the receive-jobs queue attempts to place the job on a host in the execution cluster. If a suitable host is
found, the job is dispatched. If a suitable host is not found, the job remains pending in the receive-jobs cluster, and is evaluated again the next
scheduling cycle.
6. If the job is dispatched to the execution host but cannot start after the time interval MAX_RSHED_TIME (lsb.params), it returns to the
submission cluster to be rescheduled. However, if the job repeatedly returns to the submission cluster because it could not be started in a
remote cluster, after LSB_MC_INITFAIL_RETRY tries to start the job (lsf.conf), LSF suspends the job (PSUSP) in the submission cluster, unless
a forwarded job could not start in remote cluster due to insufﬁcient resource.
Queue scheduling parameters under job forwarding model
Forcing consistent scheduling behavior
If the queue policies of the send-jobs queue are the same as the queue policies of the receive-jobs queue, the user should see identical behavior,
whether the job is scheduled locally or remotely.
Queue policies differ
The job-level (user-speciﬁed) requirements and queue-level parameters (set by the administrator) are used to schedule and run the job.
If a job runs in the submission cluster, the send-jobs queue parameters apply. If a job becomes a MultiCluster job and runs in another cluster, the
receive-jobs queue parameters apply.
Since the receive-jobs queue policies replace the send-jobs queue polices, LSF users might notice that identical jobs are subject to different
scheduling policies, depending on whether or not the job becomes a MultiCluster job.
Send-jobs queue parameters that affect MultiCluster jobs
If the job requirements conflict with the send-jobs queue parameters, the job is rejected by the send-jobs queue.
In general, queue-level parameters at the submission side don’t affect the scheduling of MultiCluster jobs once the jobs have been
forwarded to the execution queue.
Receive-jobs queue parameters that affect MultiCluster jobs
In general, queue-level policies set on the execution side are the only parameters that affect MultiCluster jobs:
If the job requirements conflict with the receive-jobs queue parameters, the job is rejected by the receive-jobs queue and returns to the
submission cluster.
Runtime queue level parameters (terminate when, job starter, load threshold, exclusive, etc): the receive-jobs queue settings are
enforced, the send-jobs queue settings are ignored.
Resource requirements: the receive-jobs queue settings are enforced, the send-jobs queue settings are ignored.
Resource limits: the execution cluster settings are enforced, the submission cluster settings are ignored.
Job slot limits (hjob limit, ujob limit, qjob limit): the execution cluster settings are enforced, the submission cluster settings are ignored.
Advance reservations across clusters
Users can create and use advance reservation for the multicluster job forwarding model. To enable this feature, you must upgrade all clusters to LSF
10.1.0 or later.
Advance reservation
The user from the submission cluster negotiates an advance reservation with the administrator of the execution cluster. The administrator creates
the reservation in the execution cluster.
The reservation information is visible from the submission cluster. To submit a job and use the reserved resources, users specify the reservation at
the time of job submission.
A job that speciﬁes a reservation can only start on the reserved resources during the time of the reservation, even if other resources are available.
Therefore, this type of job does not follow the normal scheduling process. Instead, the job is immediately forwarded to the execution cluster and is
held in PEND until it can start. These jobs are not affected by the remote timeout limit (MAX_RSCHED_TIME in lsb.queues) since the system cannot
automatically reschedule the job to any other cluster.
IBM Spectrum LSF 933

Missed reservations
If the execution cluster cannot accept the job because the reservation is expired or deleted, the job will be in the submission cluster in the PSUSP
state.
The pending reason is:
Specified reservation has expired or has been deleted.
The job should be modiﬁed or killed by the owner.
If the execution cluster accepts the job and then the reservation expires or is deleted while job is pending, the job will be in the execution cluster
detached from the reservation and scheduled as a normal job.
Broken connections
If cluster connectivity is interrupted, all remote reservations are forgotten.
During this time, submission clusters will not be able to see remote reservations; jobs submitted with remote reservation and not yet forwarded will
PEND; and new jobs will not be able to use the reservation. Reservation information will not be available until cluster connectivity is re-established
and the clusters have a chance to synchronize on reservation. At that time (given that reservation is still available), jobs will be forwarded, new jobs
can be submitted with speciﬁed reservation, and users will be able to see the remote reservation.
Modify a reservation
After an advance reservation is made, you can use brsvmod to modify the reservation.
Advance reservations only can be modiﬁed with brsvmod in the local cluster. A modiﬁed remote reservation is visible from the submission cluster.
The jobs attached to the remote reservation are treated as the local jobs when the advance reservation is modiﬁed in the remote cluster.
Delete a reservation
After an advance reservation is made, you can use brsvdel to delete the reservation from the execution cluster.
brsvdel reservation_ID
If you try to delete the reservation from the submission cluster, you will see an error.
Submit jobs to a reservation in a remote cluster
Submit the job and specify the remote advance reservation:
bsub -U reservation_name@cluster_name
In this example, we assume the default queue is conﬁgured to forward jobs to the remote cluster.
Extend a reservation
bmod -t allows the job to keep running after the reservation expires.
The command bmod does not apply to pending jobs or jobs that are already forwarded to the remote cluster. However it can be used on the
execution cluster. For that, it behaves as if it is a local job.
Special considerations under job forwarding model
Fair share
If fair share scheduling is enabled, resource usage information is a factor used in the calculation of dynamic user priority. Multicluster jobs count
towards a user’s fair share priority in the execution cluster, and do not affect fair share calculations in the submission cluster.
There is no requirement that both clusters use fair share or have the same fair share policies. However, if you submit a job and specify a local user
group for fair share purposes (bsub -G), your job cannot run remotely unless you also belong to a user group of the same name in the execution
cluster.
Parallel jobs
934    IBM Spectrum LSF

A parallel job can be forwarded to another cluster, but the job cannot start unless the execution cluster has enough hosts and resources to run the
entire job. A parallel job cannot span clusters.
Resizable jobs
Resizable jobs across multicluster clusters is not supported. This implies the following behavior:
For the forwarding model, once job is forwarded to remote cluster, job is not automatically resizable.
You cannot run bresize commands to shrink allocations from submission clusters in either lease model or job forwarding model
Only bresize release is supported in the job forwarding model from the execution cluster:
The submission cluster logs all events related to bresize release in the submission cluster lsb.events ﬁle.
The submission cluster logs JOB_RESIZE events into the lsb.acct ﬁle after the allocation is changed.
Users should be able to view allocation changes from submission cluster through bjobs, bhist, bacct, busers, bqueues, and so on.
Job re-queuing
If job re-queue is enabled, LSF re-queues jobs that ﬁnish with exit codes that indicate job failure.
User-speciﬁed job re-queues
bre-queue in the submission cluster causes the job to be re-queued in the send-jobs queue.
bre-queue in the execution cluster causes the job to be re-queued in the receive-jobs queue.
Automatic job re-queues
1. If job re-queue (REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES in lsb.queues) is enabled in the receive-jobs queue, and the job’s exit code matches, the
execution cluster re-queues the job (it does not return to the submission cluster). Exclusive job re-queue works properly.
2. If the execution cluster does not re-queue the job, the job returns to the send-jobs cluster, and gets a second chance to be re-queued.
If job re-queue is enabled in the send-jobs queue, and the job’s exit code matches, the submission cluster re-queues the job.
3. Exclusive job re-queue values conﬁgured in the send-jobs queue always cause the job to be re-queued, but for multicluster jobs the
exclusive feature does not work; these jobs could be dispatched to the same remote execution host as before.
Automatic retry limits
The pre-execution command retry limit (MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY, LOCAL_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY, and REMOTE_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY), job
re-queue limit (MAX_JOB_REQUEUE), and job preemption retry limit (MAX_JOB_PREEMPT) conﬁgured in lsb.params, lsb.queues, and
lsb.applications on the execution cluster are applied.
If the forwarded job re-queue limit exceeds the limit on the execution cluster, the job exits and returns to the submission cluster and remains
pending for rescheduling.
Remote pending job re-queue
Use bre-queue -p to re-queue speciﬁed remote pending jobs.
Use bre-queue -a to re-queue remote pending jobs and all local jobs (including DONE and EXIT jobs in local cluster).
Only job owners, LSF cluster administrators, or LSF group administrators can re-queue a job.
The only difference between -p and -a is the job dispatch order. Running bre-queue -p in the submission cluster re-queues a remote job to
the top of the queue, so that the re-queued job is dispatched ﬁrst no matter which position it is in the pending job list. bre-queue -a puts the
remote job to the end of queue just as in the local cluster.
Job rerun
If job rerun is enabled, LSF automatically restarts running jobs that are interrupted due to failure of the execution host.
If queue-level job rerun (RERUNNABLE in lsb.queues) is enabled in both send-jobs and receive-jobs queues, only the receive-jobs queue reruns the
job.
1. If job rerun is enabled in the receive-jobs queue, the execution cluster reruns the job. While the job is pending in the execution cluster, the job
status is returned to the submission cluster.
2. If the receive-jobs queue does not enable job rerun, the job returns to the submission cluster and gets a second chance to be rerun. If job
rerun is enabled at the user level, or is enabled in the send-jobs queue, the submission cluster reruns the job.
Sorting forwarded jobs by their submission time
Enabling the parameter MC_SORT_BY_SUBMIT_TIME in lsb.params allows forwarded jobs on the execution cluster to be sorted and run based on
their original submission time (instead of their forwarded time), in a multicluster environment.
Job migration
 Checkpoint a multicluster job
 Absolute priority scheduling
 Strict resource requirement select string syntax
IBM Spectrum LSF 935

Compute unit requirement strings
Job migration
Procedure
As long as a MultiCluster job is rerunnable (bsub -r or RERUNNABLE=yes in the send-jobs queue) and is not checkpointable, you can migrate it to
another host, but you cannot specify which host. Migrated jobs return to the submission cluster to be dispatched with a new job ID.
For more information on job migration, see Administering IBM Platform LSF.
User-speciﬁed job migration
Procedure
To migrate a job manually, run bmig in either the submission or execution cluster, using the appropriate job ID.
You cannot use bmig -m to specify a host.
Tip:
Operating in the execution cluster is more efﬁcient than sending the bmig command through the submission cluster.
Automatic job migration
Procedure
1. To enable automatic job migration, set the migration threshold (MIG in lsb.queues) in the receive-jobs queue.
2. You can also set a migration threshold at the host level on the execution host (MIG in lsb.hosts).
The lowest migration threshold applies to the job.
Tip:
Automatic job migration conﬁgured in the send-jobs queue does not affect MultiCluster jobs.
Migration of checkpointable jobs
Procedure
Checkpointable MultiCluster jobs cannot be migrated to another host.
The migration action stops and checkpoints the job, then schedules the job on the same host again.
Checkpoint a multicluster job
Before you begin
Checkpointing of a multicluster job is only supported when the send-jobs queue is conﬁgured to forward jobs to a single remote receive-jobs queue,
without ever using local hosts:
Procedure
The checkpoint-able multicluster jobs resume on the same host.
Conﬁguration
About this task
Checkpointing multicluster jobs
Procedure
To enable checkpointing of multicluster jobs, deﬁne a checkpoint directory:
a. in both the send-jobs and receive-jobs queues (CHKPNT in lsb.queues)
b. or in an application proﬁle (CHKPNT_DIR, CHKPNT_PERIOD, CHKPNT_INITPERIOD, CHKPNT_METHOD in lsb.applications) of both submission
cluster and execution cluster.
936    IBM Spectrum LSF

LSF uses the directory speciﬁed in the execution cluster and ignores the directory speciﬁed in the submission cluster.
LSF writes the checkpoint ﬁle in a subdirectory named with the submission cluster name and submission cluster job ID. This allows LSF to
checkpoint multiple jobs to the same checkpoint directory. For example, the submission cluster is ClusterA, the submission job ID is 789, and the
send-jobs queue enables checkpointing. The job is forwarded to ClusterB, the execution job ID is 123, and the receive-jobs queue speciﬁes a
checkpoint directory called XYZ_dir. LSF will save the checkpoint ﬁle in the XYZ_dir/clusterA/789/ directory.
Tip: You cannot use bsub -k to make a multicluster job checkpoint-able.
Checkpoint a job
Procedure
To checkpoint and stop a multicluster job, run bmig in the execution cluster and specify the local job ID.
Tip: You cannot run bmig from the submission cluster. You cannot use bmig -m to specify a host.
Force a check-pointed job
Procedure
Use brun to force any pending job to be dispatched immediately to a speciﬁc host, regardless of user limits and fair share priorities. This is the only
way to resume a job that has been check-pointed on a different host. By default, these jobs attempt to restart from the last checkpoint.
Tip: Use brun -b if you want to make checkpoint-able jobs start over from the beginning (for example, this might be necessary if the new host does
not have access to the old checkpoint directory).
Example
About this task
In this example, users in a remote cluster submit work to a data center using a send-jobs queue that is conﬁgured to forward jobs to only one
receive-jobs queue. You are the administrator of the data center and you need to shut down a host for maintenance. The host is busy running
checkpoint-able multicluster jobs.
Procedure
1. Before you perform maintenance on a host in the execution cluster, take these steps:
a. Run badmin hclose to close the host and prevent additional jobs from starting on the host.
b. Run bmig and specify the execution cluster job IDs of the checkpoint-able multicluster jobs running on the host. For example, if jobs
from a remote cluster use job IDs 123 and 456 in the local cluster, type the following command to checkpoint and stop the jobs:
bmig 123 456
You cannot use bmig -m to specify a host.
c. Allow the checkpoint process to complete. The jobs are requeued to the submission cluster. From there, they will be forwarded to the
same receive-jobs queue again, and scheduled on the same host. However, if the host is closed, they will not start.
d. Shut down LSF daemons on the host.
2. After you perform maintenance on a host, take these steps:
a. Start LSF daemons on the host.
b. Use badmin hopen to open the host. The multicluster jobs resume automatically.
Absolute priority scheduling
When absolute priority scheduling (APS) is enabled in the submission queue:
The APS value at the submission cluster:
The APS value will affect the job forwarding order for new incoming jobs, but not for jobs that have already been forwarded (that is, the
job is still pending at the execution cluster)
The APS value does not affect the job order at the remote cluster. Job order is determined by the local policies at the remote cluster.
bmod -aps does not apply to the send-jobs queue
bjobs -aps shows the job order and APS value at the local cluster
The APS value at the execution cluster:
The APS value at receiving queue will affect remote job execution at the execution cluster
IBM Spectrum LSF 937

The APS value at the execution cluster will not be sent back to the submission cluster
Strict resource requirement select string syntax
Resource requirements are checked before jobs are forwarded to the remote cluster. If the selection string is valid, the job is forwarded.
When strict resource requirement checking conﬁguration does not match between the submission and remote clusters, jobs may be rejected by the
remote cluster.
Compute unit requirement strings
When a job is submitted with compute unit resource requirements, any requirements apply only to the execution cluster. Only the syntax of the
resource requirement string is checked on the submission side, and if the cu[] string is valid, the job is forwarded.
When compute unit requirements cannot be satisﬁed in the remote cluster (such as a non-existent compute unit type) jobs may be rejected by the
remote cluster. Hosts running LSF 7 Update 4 or earlier cannot satisfy compute unit resource requirements.
Queues for the LSF multicluster capability
By default, clusters do not share resources, even if the LSF multicluster capability is installed. To enable job forwarding, enable queues for the LSF
multicluster capability in both the submission and execution clusters.
How it works
Send-jobs queue
A send-jobs queue can forward jobs to a speciﬁed remote queue. By default, LSF attempts to run jobs in the local cluster ﬁrst. LSF only
attempts to place a job remotely if it cannot place the job locally.
Receive-jobs queue
A receive-jobs queue accepts jobs from queues in a speciﬁed remote cluster. Although send-jobs queues only forward jobs to speciﬁc queues
in the remote cluster, receive-jobs queues can accept work from any and all queues in the remote cluster.
Multiple queue pairs
You can conﬁgure multiple send-jobs and receive-jobs queues in one cluster.
A queue can forward jobs to as many queues in as many clusters as you want, and can also receive jobs from as many other clusters as
you want.
A receive-jobs queue can also borrow resources using the resource leasing method, but a send-jobs queue using the job forwarding
method cannot also share resources using the resource leasing method.
Enable queues for the LSF multicluster capability
 To enable queues for the LSF multicluster capability, conﬁgure a send-jobs queue in the submission cluster and a receive-jobs queue in the
execution cluster.
Enable queues for the LSF multicluster capability
To enable queues for the LSF multicluster capability, conﬁgure a send-jobs queue in the submission cluster and a receive-jobs queue in the
execution cluster.
About this task
To set up a pair of queues for the LSF multicluster capability, do the following:
Procedure
1. In the submission cluster, conﬁgure a send-jobs queue that forwards work to the execution queue.
2. In the execution cluster, conﬁgure a receive-jobs queue that accepts work from the cluster that contains the send-jobs queue.
Send-jobs queues
938    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
1. To conﬁgure a send-jobs queue, deﬁne the SNDJOBS_TO parameter in the lsb.queues queue deﬁnition. Specify a space-separated list of
queue names in the format queue_name@cluster_name.
If the send-jobs queue does not have the SNDJOBS_TO parameter conﬁgured, it cannot forward jobs for the LSF multicluster capability. The
job remains pending in the submission cluster and is evaluated again during the next scheduling cycle.
2. Make sure the HOSTS parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle speciﬁes only local hosts (or the special keyword none).
If the HOSTS parameter speciﬁes any remote hosts, the SNDJOBS_TO parameter is ignored and the queue behaves as a receive-jobs queue
under the resource leasing method.
3. Optional. To restrict users or user groups from forwarding jobs to remote clusters in this queue, deﬁne the FWD_USERS parameter in the
lsb.queues queue deﬁnition.
Specify a space-separated list of user names or user groups in the following format:
FWD_USERS=all [~user_name ...] [~user_group ...] | [user_name ...] [user_group [~user_group ...] ...]
Receive-jobs queues
Procedure
To conﬁgure a receive-jobs queue, deﬁne the RCVJOBS_FROM parameter in the lsb.queues queue deﬁnition. Specify a space-separated list of cluster
names.
Use the keyword allclusters to specify any remote cluster.
Examples
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME=send 
PRIORITY=30 
NICE=20 
SNDJOBS_TO = rcv@allclusters 
HOSTS = none 
FWD_USERS=all ~ugroup1 
End Queue
The following queue is both a send-jobs and receive-jobs queue, and links with multiple remote clusters. If queue1 cannot place a job in the local
cluster, it can forward the job to queue2 in cluster2, or to queue3 in cluster3. If any queues in clusters 2 or 3 are conﬁgured to send MultiCluster
jobs to queue1, queue1 accepts them.
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME=queue1 
SNDJOBS_TO=queue2@cluster2 queue3@cluster3 
RCVJOBS_FROM=cluster2 cluster3 
PRIORITY=30 
NICE=20 
End Queue
Remote-only queues
By default, LSF tries to place jobs in the local cluster. If your local cluster is occupied, it may take a long time before your jobs can run locally. You
might want to force some jobs to run on a remote cluster instead of the local cluster. Submit these jobs to a remote-only queue. A remote-only queue
forwards all jobs to a remote cluster without attempting to schedule the job locally.
Conﬁgure a remote-only queue
 
Conﬁgure a remote-only queue
About this task
To make a queue that only runs jobs in remote clusters, take the following steps:
Procedure
1. Edit the lsb.queues queue deﬁnition for the send-jobs queue.
a. Deﬁne SNDJOBS_TO. This speciﬁes that the queue can forward jobs to speciﬁed remote execution queues.
b. Set HOSTS to none. This speciﬁes that the queue uses no local hosts.
IBM Spectrum LSF 939

2. Edit the lsb.queues queue deﬁnition for each receive-jobs queue.
a. Deﬁne RCVJOBS_FROM. This speciﬁes that the receive-jobs queue accepts jobs from the speciﬁed submission cluster.
Example
In cluster1:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = queue1 
HOSTS = none 
SNDJOBS_TO = queue2@cluster2 
MAX_RSCHED_TIME = infinit 
DESCRIPTION = A remote-only queue that sends jobs to cluster2. 
End Queue
In cluster2:
Begin Queue 
QUEUE_NAME = queue2 
RCVJOBS_FROM = cluster1 
DESCRIPTION = A queue that receives jobs from cluster1. 
End Queue
Queue1 in cluster1 forwards all jobs to queue2 in cluster2.
Disable timeout in remote-only queues
About this task
A remote-only send-jobs queue that sends to only one receive-jobs queue.
Procedure
Set MAX_RSCHED_TIME=inﬁnit to maintain FCFS job order of MultiCluster jobs in the execution queue.
Otherwise, jobs that time out are rescheduled to the same execution queue, but they lose priority and position because they are treated as a new job
submission.
In general, the timeout is helpful because it allows LSF to automatically shift a pending MultiCluster job to a better queue.
Submit a job to run in a remote cluster
About this task
Jobs can be submitted to run only in a remote cluster.
Procedure
Use bsub -q and specify a remote-only MultiCluster queue.
This is not compatible with bsub -m. When your job is forwarded to a remote queue, you cannot specify the execution host by name.
Example:
queue1 is a remote-only MultiCluster queue.
% bsub -q queue1 myjob 
Job <101> is submitted to queue <queue1>.
This job will be dispatched to a remote cluster.
Force a pending job to run
Use brun -m to force a pending or ﬁnished job to run or be forwarded to a specifed cluster. The exact behavior of brun on a pending job depends on
where the job is pending, and which hosts or clusters are speciﬁed in the brun command.
Important:
Only administrators can use the brun command. You can only run brun from the submission cluster.
You must specify one or more host names or a cluster name when you force a job to run.
If multiple hosts are speciﬁed, the ﬁrst available host is selected and the remainder ignored. Speciﬁed hosts cannot belong to more than one cluster.
You can only specify one cluster name. The job is forced to be forwarded to the speciﬁed cluster.
You cannot specify host names and cluster names together in the same brun command.
940    IBM Spectrum LSF

A job pending in an execution cluster forced to run in a different cluster is returned to the submission cluster, and then forwarded once again.
If a job is submitted with a cluster name and the job is forwarded to a remote cluster, you cannot use brun -m again to switch the job to another
execution cluster. For example:
bsub -m cluster1 -q test1 sleep 1000 
The job is pending on cluster1. Running brun again to forward the job to cluster2 is rejected:
brun -m cluster2 1803 
Failed to run the job: Hosts requested do not belong to the cluster
For example:
brun -m "host12 host27"
In this example, if host12 is available the job is sent to the cluster containing host12 and tries to run. If unsuccessful, the job pends in the cluster
containing host12. If host12 is not available, the job is sent to the cluster containing host27 where it runs or pends.
Force a job to run on a speciﬁc host
Local host speciﬁed
Job runs locally. For example:
brun -m hostA 246 
Job <246> is being forced to run or forwarded.
bjobs 246 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
246     user1   RUN   normal     hostD       hostA       *eep 10000 Jan  3 12:15
bhist -l 246 
Job <246>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Mon Jan  3 12:15:22: Submitted from host <hostD>, to Queue <normal>, 
CWD <$HOME/envs>, Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:16:13: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:16:13: Dispatched to <hostA>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:16:41: Starting (Pid 10467); 
Mon Jan  3 12:16:59: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
Execution CWD </home/user1/envs>, Execution Pid <10467>;
Host in execution cluster speciﬁed
Job is forwarded to execution cluster containing speciﬁed host, and runs.
For example:
brun -m hostB 244 
Job <244> is being forced to run or forwarded.
bjobs 244 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
244     user1   RUN   normal     hostD       hostB       *eep 10000 Jan  3 12:15
bhist -l 244 
  
Job <244>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Mon Jan  3 12:15:22: Submitted from host <hostD>, to Queue <normal>, 
 CWD <$HOME/envs>, Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Forwarded job to cluster cluster2; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Remote job control initiated; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Dispatched to <hostB>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Remote job control completed; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Starting (Pid 28804); 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </home/user1/envs>, Execution Pid <28804>;
Host in same execution cluster speciﬁed
Job runs on the speciﬁed host in the same execution cluster. For example:
brun -m hostB 237 
Job <237> is being forced to run or forwarded. 
bjobs 237 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
237     user1   RUN   normal     hostD       hostB       *eep 10000 Jan  3 12:14 
  
bhist -l 237 
  
Job <237>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Mon Jan  3 12:14:48: Submitted from host <hostD>, to Queue <normal>, 
 CWD <$HOME/envs>, Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:14:53: Forwarded job to cluster cluster2; 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:08: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
IBM Spectrum LSF 941

Mon Jan  3 12:22:08: Remote job control initiated; 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:08: Dispatched to <hostB>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:09: Remote job control completed; 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:09: Starting (Pid 0); 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:09: Starting (Pid 29073); 
Mon Jan  3 12:22:09: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </home/user1/envs>, Execution Pid <29073>;
Host in submission cluster speciﬁed
Job runs on the speciﬁed host in the submission cluster. For example:
brun -m hostA 238 
Job <238> is being forced to run or forwarded. 
bjobs 237 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
238     user1   RUN   normal     hostB       hostA       *eep 10000 Oct  5 11:00 
  
bhist -l 237 
Job <237>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:16: Submitted from host <hostB>, to Queue <normal>, 
 CWD </usr/local/xl/conf>,  
                     Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:18: Forwarded job to cluster ec1; 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:46: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:46: Pending: Job has returned from remote cluster; 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:46: Dispatched to <hostA>; 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:46: Starting (Pid 15686); 
Wed Oct  5 11:00:47: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </usr/local/xl/conf>,  
                     Execution Pid <15686>; 
Summary of time in seconds spent in various states by  Wed Oct  5 11:01:06 
  PEND     PSUSP    RUN      USUSP    SSUSP    UNKWN    TOTAL 
  30       0        20       0        0        0        50
Force a job to run in a speciﬁc cluster
Host in different execution cluster speciﬁed
Job returns to submission cluster, is forwarded to execution cluster containing speciﬁed host, and runs.
brun -m ec2-hostA 3111 
Job <3111> is being forced to run or forwarded. 
bjobs 3111 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST       EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
3111    user1   RUN   queue1     sub-management  ec2-hostA       sleep 1000 Feb 23 11:21 
  
bhist -l 3111 
  
Job <3111>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 1000> 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:00: Submitted from host <sub-management>, to Queue <queue1>, 
 CWD </usr/local/xl/conf>; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:03: Forwarded job to cluster cluster1; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:58: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:58: Pending: Job has returned from remote cluster; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:58: Forwarded job to cluster cluster2; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:58: Remote job run control initiated; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:59: Dispatched to <ec2-hostA>; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:59: Remote job run control completed; 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:59: Starting (Pid 3257); 
Wed Feb 23 11:21:59: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </usr/local/xl/conf >, Execution Pid <3257>; 
  
Summary of time in seconds spent in various states by  Wed Feb 23 11:24:59 
  PEND     PSUSP    RUN      USUSP    SSUSP    UNKWN    TOTAL 
  59       0        180      0        0        0        239 
Job already forwarded to execution
Job has already been forwarded to an execution cluster, and you specify a different execution cluster. The job returns to submission cluster,
and is forced to be forwarded to the speciﬁed execution cluster. The job is not forced to run in the new execution cluster. After the job is
forwarded, the execution cluster schedules the job according to local policies.
For example:
brun -m cluster2 244 
Job <244> is being forced to run or forwarded.
bjobs 244 
JOBID   USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME 
244     user1   RUN   normal     hostD     hostB    *eep 10000 Jan  3 12:15
942    IBM Spectrum LSF

bhist -l 244 
  
Job <244>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Mon Jan  3 12:15:22: Submitted from host <hostD>, to Queue <normal>, 
 CWD <$HOME/envs>, Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Mon Jan 3 12:15:25: Forwarded job to cluster cluster1; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Pending: Job has returned from remote cluster; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Forwarded job to cluster cluster2; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Dispatched to <hostB>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Starting (Pid 28804); 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </home/user1/envs>, Execution Pid <28804>;
Job pending in execution cluster
Job is forwarded to the speciﬁed execution cluster, but the job is not forced to run. After the job is forwarded, the execution cluster schedules
the job according to local policies.
For example:
brun -m cluster2 244 
Job <244> is being forced to run or forwarded.
bhist -l 244 
  
Job <244>, User <user1>, Project <default>, Command <sleep 10000> 
Mon Jan  3 12:15:22: Submitted from host <hostD>, to Queue <normal>, 
 CWD <$HOME/envs>, Requested Resources <type == any>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Job is forced to run or forwarded by user or administrator <user1>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Forwarded job to cluster cluster2; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Remote job control initiated; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Dispatched to <hostB>; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:18: Remote job control completed; 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Starting (Pid 28804); 
Mon Jan  3 12:19:19: Running with execution home </home/user1>, 
 Execution CWD </home/user1/envs>, Execution Pid <28804>;
Request a speciﬁc cluster
You can specify cluster names when submitting jobs. If no cluster name is speciﬁed, a list of remote cluster names are presented.
The -clusters option has four keywords:
all: Speciﬁes both local cluster and all remote clusters in the SNDJOBS_TO parameter of the target queue in lsb.queues. For example:
bsub -clusters all -q <send queue>
LSF will go through the SNDJOBS_TO parameter in lsb.queues to check whether asked clusters (except for the local cluster) are members of
SNDJOBS_TO. If any cluster except the local cluster does not exist in SNDJOBS_TO, the job is rejected with an error message.
others: Sends the job to all clusters except for the clusters you specify. For example:
bsub -clusters "c1+3 c2+1 others+2"
~: Must be used with all to indicate the rest of the clusters, excluding the speciﬁed clusters.
+: When followed by a positive integer, speciﬁes job level preference for requested clusters. For example:
bsub -clusters "c1+2 c2+1"
Refer to the IBM Platform LSF Command Reference for details on command syntax.
If the local cluster name is local_c1, and SNDJOBS_TO=q1@rmt_c1 q2@rmt_c2 q3@rmt_c3, then the requested cluster should be local_c1 and
rmt_c3. For example:
bsub -clusters "all ~rmt_c1 ~rmt_c2"
-clusters local_cluster restricts the job for dispatch to local hosts. To run a job on remote clusters only, use:
bsub -clusters "all ~local_cluster"
A job that only speciﬁes remote clusters will not run on local hosts.
If there are multiple default queues, then when bsub -clusters remote_clusters is issued, the job is sent to the queue whose SNDJOBS_TO contains
the requested clusters. For example:
bsub -clusters "c2" , DEFAULT_QUEUE=q1 q2, q1: SNDJOBS_TO=recvQ1@c1 recvQ2@c3, q2: SNDJOBS_TO=recvQ1@c1 recvQ2@c2
The job is sent to q2.
IBM Spectrum LSF 943

Remote cluster equivalency
By default, if no cluster name is speciﬁed, LSF utilities such as lsload return information about the local cluster.
If you conﬁgure a remote cluster to be equivalent to the local cluster, LSF displays information about the remote cluster as well. For example, lsload
with no options lists hosts in the local cluster and hosts in the equivalent remote clusters.
The following commands automatically display information about hosts in a remote cluster if equivalency is conﬁgured:
lshosts
lsload
lsplace
lsrun
Performance limitation
Expect performance in a cluster to decrease as the number of equivalent clusters increases, because you must wait while LSF retrieves
information from each remote cluster in turn. Deﬁning all clusters in a large MultiCluster system as equivalent can cause a performance
bottleneck as the management host LIM polls all clusters synchronously.
Transparency for users
To make resources in remote clusters as transparent as possible to the user, conﬁgure a remote cluster to be equivalent to the local cluster. The
users see information about the local and equivalent clusters without having to supply a cluster name to the command.
Hosts in equivalent clusters are all identiﬁed by the keyword remoteHost instead of the actual host name. For example, bjobs -p -l will show
remoteHost@cluster_name instead of host_name@cluster_name.
Simplify MultiCluster administration
If you have many clusters conﬁgured to use MultiCluster, create one cluster for administrative purposes, and conﬁgure every other cluster to be
equivalent to it. This allows you to view the status of all clusters at once, and makes administration of LSF easier.
Conﬁguration
To specify equivalent clusters, set EQUIV in the RemoteClusters section of lsf.cluster.cluster_name to Y for the equivalent clusters.
Remote Resources
You can allow the submission forward policy to consider remote resource availability before forwarding jobs. This allows jobs to be forwarded more
successfully, but may result in the submission cluster only running local jobs.
Conﬁgure remote resource availability
About this task
Submission cluster scheduler considers whether remote resources exist, and only forwards jobs to a queue with free slots or space in the
MultiCluster pending job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG).
To enable a submission forward policy and consider remote resource availability, deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE=y in lsf.conf.
When MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE is deﬁned, the following resource requirements are supported: -R "type==type_name", -R "same[type] and
-R "deﬁned(boolean resource_name)".
Note: Both remote resource availability and remote queue workload are considered by the scheduler when the parameter
MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE is deﬁned.
The submission cluster scheduler considers whether remote resources exist, and only forwards jobs to a queue with free slots or space in the
MultiCluster pending job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG or IMPT_SLOTBKLG). Host type and user-deﬁned boolean resources for a host are automatically
passed from the execution cluster to the submission cluster.
In some cases, you may want to forward jobs based on numeric or string resources on the execution cluster. For example, different versions of the
same application may be installed on different nodes, which are naturally represented as string or numeric resources. Numeric and string resources
are only passed back if they are deﬁned in MC_RESOURCE_MATCHING_CRITERIA in lsb.params. The remote execution cluster makes the
submission cluster aware of what resources (and their values) are listed so that the submission cluster can make better job forward decision.
Mapping information for the remote receive queue to the execution cluster is also sent back to the submission cluster so that the submission cluster
knows which remote queue can access which execution cluster.
944    IBM Spectrum LSF

Based on MC forwarding concepts, the job is forwarded through a channel between the send queue and the receive queue. One send queue can
correspond to multiple receive queues belonging to one or more remote clusters. The forward scheduling ﬁnds the best destination queue among
several candidate receive queues. Job forward scheduling is usually based on the ownership of resources visible to receive queues instead of whole
remote cluster.
Remote job modiﬁcation
In LSF MC forwarding mode, you can modify almost all attributes for pending jobs (in PEND and PSUSP status) and some attributes for started jobs
(which include jobs in RUN, SSUSP, USUSP and WAIT status) from the submission cluster with the bmod command.
After LSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS in lsf.conf is set to Y, you can modify the following attributes of a running job:
cpu limit ([-c cpu_limit[/host_spec] | -cn])
Memory limit ([-M mem_limit | -Mn])
Rerunnable attribute ([-r | -rn])
Run limit ([-W [hour:]minute[/host_name | /host_model] | -Wn])
Swap limit ([-v swap_limit | -vn])
Standard output/error ([-o out_file | -on] [-oo out_file | -oon] [-e err_file | -en][-eo err_file | -en])
Remote queue workload job-forwarding scheduler
Enhanced scheduler decisions can be customized to consider characteristics of remote queues before forwarding a job. Remote queue attributes
such as queue priority, number of preemptable jobs, and queue workload are sent to the submission scheduler. The decisions made by the
scheduler, based on this information, depend on the setting of MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE in lsb.params.
Queue workload and conﬁguration is considered in conjunction with remote resource availability (MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE=Y is
automatically set in lsf.conf).
Tip:
Deﬁning MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE as a valid value, the submission scheduler supports the same remote resources as
MC_PLUGIN_REMOTE_RESOURCE: -R "type==type_name", and -R "same[type]"
Remote queue counter collection
The submission cluster receives up-to-date information about each queue in remote clusters. This information is considered during job forwarding
decisions.
Queue information is collected by the submission cluster when MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE (on the submission cluster) is set to a valid value.
Information is sent by each execution cluster when MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL (on the execution cluster) is deﬁned, and the submission
cluster is collecting queue information.
Some jobs may be forwarded between counter update intervals. The submission scheduler increments locally stored counter information as jobs are
forwarded, and reconciles incoming counter updates to account for all jobs.
The following counter information is collected for each queue:
Queue ID
Queue priority
Total slots: The total number of slots (on all hosts) jobs are dispatched to from this queue. This includes slots on hosts with the status ok, and
with the status closed due to running jobs.
Available slots: The free slots, or slots (out of the total slots) which do not currently have a job running.
Running slots: The number of slots currently running jobs from the queue.
Pending slots: The number of slots required by jobs pending on the queue.
Preemptable available slots: The number of slots the queue can access through preemption.
Preemptable slots
Preemptable queue counters (1...n):
Preemptable queue ID
IBM Spectrum LSF 945

Preemptable queue priority
Preemptable available slots
Note:
After a MultiCluster connection is established, counters take the time set in MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL to update. Scheduling decisions made
before this ﬁrst interval has passed do not accurately account for remote queue workload.
The parameter MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE was introduced in LSF Version 7 Update 6. All clusters within a MultiCluster conﬁguration must
be running a version of LSF containing this parameter to enable the enhanced scheduler.
Remote queue selection
The information considered by the job-forwarding scheduler when accounting for workload and remote resources depends on the setting of
MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE in lsb.params. Valid settings for this parameter are:
RESOURCE_ONLY
Jobs are forwarded to the remote queue with the requested resources and the largest (available slots)-(pending slots).
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE
Jobs are forwarded as with RESOURCE_ONLY, but if no appropriate queues have free slots, the best queue is selected based on the largest
(preemptable available slots)-(pending slots).
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY
Jobs are forwarded as with COUNT_PREEMPTABLE, but jobs are forwarded to the highest priority remote queue.
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY
Jobs are forwarded as with COUNT_PREEMPTABLE, but queue selection is based on which queues can preempt lowest priority queue jobs.
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS
Jobs are forwarded as with COUNT_PREEMPTABLE, but if no queues have free slots even after preemption, submitted jobs pend.
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY and PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY
If no appropriate queues have free slots, the best queue is selected based on:
queues that can preempt lowest priority queue jobs
the number of preemptable jobs
the pending job workload
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY and PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS
If no appropriate queues have free slots, queues with free slots after jobs are preempted are considered.
If no queues have free slots even after preemption, submitted jobs pend.
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY and PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS
If no appropriate queues have free slots, queues are considered based on:
the most free slots after preempting lowest priority queue jobs and preemptable jobs
If no queues have free slots even after preemption, submitted jobs pend.
COUNT_PREEMPTABLE with HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY and PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY and PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS
If no appropriate queues have free slots, queues are considered based on:
the most free slots after preempting lowest priority queue jobs and preemptable jobs
If no queues have free slots even after preemption, submitted jobs pend.
DYN_CLUSTER_WEIGHTING
Sets a policy to select the best receiving queue for forwarded jobs. LSF considers queue preference, the queue with the least actual available
slots, and the pending ratio in selecting the receiving queue.
In the queue ﬁltering phase, LSF performs an additional check against the IMPT_SLOTBLKG limit in lsb.queues. If a receive queue reaches its
IMPT_SLOTBLKG limit, that queue is removed from the candidate queue list.
In the candidate queues ordering phase, LSF orders the candidate receive queues based on whether some queues can meet the job's slot
requirements. If some queues can meet the job's slot requirements, the queue that has the highest preference is selected; if multiple queues
have the same preference, the queue that has the least number of available job slots is selected as the receive queue. If no queues can meet
946    IBM Spectrum LSF

the job's slot requirements, the queue with the lowest pending ratio is selected; if multiple queues have the same pending ratio, the queue
with the highest preference is selected as the receive queue.
Note: DYN_CLUSTER_WEIGHTING cannot be combined with any other option speciﬁed in MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE.
The ﬁgure shown illustrates the scheduler decision-making process for valid settings of MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE.
Note:
When the scheduler looks for maximum values, such as for (available slots)-(pending slots), these values can be negative so long as they are within
the pending job limit for a receive-jobs queue set by IMPT_JOBBKLG in lsb.queues.
Figure 1. Scheduler decisions with MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE set in lsb.params.
Enable queue preference
 Enable job slot limit
 
Limitations
Advance reservation
When an advance reservation is active on a remote cluster, slots within the advance reservation are excluded from the number of available slots.
Inactive advance reservations do not affect the number of available slots since the slots may still be available for backﬁll jobs.
Same boolean resource within hostgroups
IBM Spectrum LSF 947

Hosts in a hostgroup conﬁgured without the required same boolean resources can cause ineffectual job-forwarding decisions from the scheduler.
For example, a job may be forwarded to a queue accessing a hostgroup with many slots available, only some of which have the boolean resource
required. If there are not enough slots to run the job it will return to the submission cluster, which may continue forwarding the same job back to the
same queue.
Same host type within hostgroups
A remote queue hostgroup satisﬁes host type requirements when any one of the hosts available is the host type requested by a job. As for boolean
resources, the submission cluster assumes all slots within a hostgroup are of the same host type. Other hostgroup conﬁgurations can result in
unexpected job-forwarding decisions.
Conﬁgure remote resource and preemptable job scheduling
About this task
Submission cluster scheduler considers whether remote resources exist, and only forwards jobs to a queue with free slots or space in the
MultiCluster pending job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG).
If no appropriate queues with free slots or space for new pending jobs are found, the best queue is selected based on the number of preemptable
jobs and the pending job workload.
Procedure
1. In the submission cluster deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE in lsb.params.
2. In the execution cluster set MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params to a non-zero value.
3. To make the changes take effect in both the submission and execution clusters run the following command:
badmin reconfig 
Conﬁgure remote resource and free slot scheduling
About this task
Submission cluster scheduler considers whether remote resources exist, and only forwards jobs to a queue with free slots or space in the
MultiCluster pending job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG).If no appropriate queues with free slots or space for new pending jobs are found, the best
queue is selected based on which queues can preempt lower priority jobs.
If no queues have free slots even after preemption, jobs pend on the submission cluster.
Procedure
1. In the submission cluster deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS in lsb.params.
2. In the execution cluster set MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params to a non-zero value.
3. To make the changes take effect in both the submission and execution clusters run the following command:
badmin reconfig 
Conﬁgure remote resource, preemptable job, and queue priority free slot
scheduling
About this task
All scheduler options are conﬁgured.
Submission cluster scheduler considers whether remote resources exist, and only forwards jobs to a queue with free slots or space in the
MultiCluster pending job threshold (IMPT_JOBBKLG).
If no appropriate queues with free slots or space for new pending jobs are found, the best queue is selected based on the number of free slots after
preempting low priority jobs and preemptable jobs.
If no queues have free slots even after preemption, jobs pend on the submission cluster.
Procedure
1. In the submission cluster deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY
PREEMPABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY PENDING_WHEN_NOSLOTS in lsb.params.
2. In the execution cluster set MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params to a non-zero value.
3. To make the changes take effect in both the submission and execution clusters run the following command:
badmin reconfig 
948    IBM Spectrum LSF

Examples
MultiCluster job forwarding is enabled from a send-queue on Cluster1 to the receive-queues HighPriority@Cluster2 and HighPriority@Cluster3. Both
clusters have lower priority queues from running local jobs, and the high priority queues can preempt jobs from the lower priority queues. The
scheduler on Cluster1 has the following information about the remote clusters:
Example 1: MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE:
Cluster2 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=60, running slots=20, pending slots=20
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=50, pending slots=0
Cluster3 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=70, running slots=30, pending slots=5
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=60, pending slots=0
Cluster2 has a total of 70 running slots out of 100 total slots, with 20 pending slots. The number of (available slots) -(pending slots) for Cluster2 is
10. Cluster3 has a total of 90 running slots out of 100 total slots, with 5 pending slots. The number of (available slots) -(pending slots) for Cluster3 is
5. Thus a job forwarded from Cluster1 is sent to HighPriority@Cluster2.
Example 2: MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY:
Cluster2 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=50, running slots=20, pending slots=20
queue=LowPriority, priority=30, running slots=80, pending slots=0
Cluster3 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=50, running slots=30, pending slots=15
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=70, pending slots=0
In both Cluster1 and Cluster2, running jobs occupy all 100 slots. LowPriority@Cluster2 has a queue priority of 30, while LowPriority@Cluster3 has a
queue priority of 20. Thus a job forwarded from Cluster1 is sent to HighPriority@Cluster3, where slots can be preempted from the lowerest priority
queue.
Example 3: MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY:
Cluster2 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=60, running slots=20, pending slots=20
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=50, pending slots=0
Cluster3 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=70, running slots=30, pending slots=5
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=60, pending slots=0
Cluster2 has a total of 70 running slots out of 100 total slots, with 20 pending slots. The number of (available slots) -(pending slots) for Cluster2 is
10. Cluster3 has a total of 90 running slots out of 100 total slots, with 5 pending slots. The number of (available slots) -(pending slots) for Cluster3 is
5.
Although (available slots)-(pending slots) is higher for Cluster2, Cluster3 contains a higher priority queue. Thus a job forwarded from Cluster1 is sent
to HighPriority@Cluster3.
Example 4: MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=COUNT_PREEMPTABLE HIGH_QUEUE_PRIORITY PREEMPTABLE_QUEUE_PRIORITY:
Cluster2 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=60, running slots=20, pending slots=20
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=80, pending slots=0
Cluster3 (100 total slots)
queue=HighPriority, priority=60, running slots=30, pending slots=5
queue=LowPriority, priority=20, running slots=70, pending slots=0
In both Cluster1 and Cluster2, running jobs occupy all 100 slots. In this case (preemptable available slots)-(pending slots) is considered. For
HighPriority@Cluster2 this number is (80-20)=60; for HighPriority@Cluster3 this number is (70-5)=65. Both queues have the same priority, thus a
IBM Spectrum LSF 949

job forwarded from Cluster1 is sent to HighPriority@Cluster3.
Enable queue preference
Set MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=DYN_CLUSTER_WEIGHTING in lsb.params on the submission cluster to select the best receiving queue for
the forwarded the job. For queue preference weighting to take effect, add preference values to the queues that are speciﬁed in SNDJOBS_TO. LSF
considers queue preference, the queue with the least actual available slots, and the pending ratio in selecting the receiving queue.
Conﬁgure queue preference
 
Conﬁgure queue preference
About this task
MultiCluster job forwarding model only.
To set up queue preference, do the following:
Procedure
1. Enable queue preference weighting.
Deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE=DYN_CLUSTER_WEIGHTING in lsb.params on the submission cluster.
Use bparams -a or bparams -l to display the conﬁguration of MC_PLUGIN_SCHEDULE_ENHANCE.
2. On the execution cluster, deﬁne MC_PLUGIN_UPDATE_INTERVAL to a positive integer in lsb.params.
3. Edit lsb.queues and add the preference values to the queues that are speciﬁed in SNDJOBS_TO.
Specify a preference value as an integer between 0 and 2147483647. The larger the number, the higher the preference for that queue. Higher
values increase the possibility of forwarding a job to the receiving queue. A single plus sign '+' indicates a queue preference of 1.
For example:
Begin Queue 
... 
SNDJOBS_TO = recvq2@cluster3+ recvq1@cluster4+3 recvq1@cluster5+6 
... 
End Queue 
In this example, the preference for queue recvq2@cluster3 is 1, recvq1@cluster4 is 3 and recvq1@cluster5 is 6.
4. Use bqueues -l to display the queue preference in the receiving queues.
Enable job slot limit
Conﬁgure IMPT_SLOTBKLG in lsb.queues to specify how many slots the forwarded pending jobs can occupy on the receiving queue.
Conﬁgure pending job slot limit
 
Conﬁgure pending job slot limit
About this task
MultiCluster job forwarding model only.
To set up a pending job slot limit on a receiving queue, do the following:
Procedure
1. Edit lsb.queues on the execution cluster, and deﬁne IMPT_SLOTBKLG on any receiving queue.
950    IBM Spectrum LSF

IMPT_SLOTBKLG speciﬁes the MultiCluster pending job slot limit for a receive-jobs queue. In the submission cluster, if the total of requested
job slots and the number of imported pending slots in the receiving queue is greater than IMPT_SLOTBKLG, the queue stops accepting jobs
from remote clusters, and the job is not forwarded to the receiving queue.
Specify an integer between 0 and 2147483646 for the number of slots.
Set IMPT_SLOTBKLG to 0 to forbid any job being forwarded to the receiving queue, or use the keyword inﬁnit to make the queue accept an
unlimited number of pending MultiCluster job slots.
For example:
Begin Queues 
... 
RCVJOBS_FROM = cluster1 cluster2 
IMPT_SLOTBKLG = 100 
... 
End Queues  
2. Use bqueues -l to display the value of IMPT_SLOTBKLG.
Pre-exec retry threshold
When a job has a pre-execution command, LSF runs the job’s pre-execution command ﬁrst. By default, LSF retries the pre-execution command ﬁve
times.
With a threshold conﬁgured, LSF returns the entire job to the submission cluster if the pre-execution command fails to run after a certain number of
attempts. The submission cluster can then reschedule the job.
Conﬁgure pre-exec retries
To limit the number of times the local cluster attempts to run the pre-execution command, set LOCAL_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY in lsb.params and
specify the maximum number of attempts. Conﬁgure MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY or REMOTE_MAX_PREEXEC_RETRY to limit pre-execution retry
attempts on the remote cluster.
The pre-execution command retry limit conﬁgured in lsb.params, lsb.queues, and lsb.applications on the execution cluster is applied.
Retry threshold and suspend notiﬁcation
If a job is forwarded to a remote cluster and then fails to start, it returns to the submission queue and LSF retries the job. After a certain number of
failed retry attempts, LSF suspends the job (PSUSP). The job remains in that state until the job owner or administrator takes action to resume,
modify, or remove the job.
By default, LSF tries to start a job up to 6 times (the threshold is 5 retry attempts). The retry threshold is conﬁgurable.
You can also conﬁgure LSF to send email to the job owner when the job is suspended. This allows the job owner to investigate the problem promptly.
By default, LSF does not alert users when a job has reached its retry threshold.
Conﬁgure retries
Set LSB_MC_INITFAIL_RETRY in lsf.conf and specify the maximum number of retry attempts. For example, to attempt to start a job no more than 3
times in total, specify 2 retry attempts:
LSB_MC_INITFAIL_RETRY = 2 
Conﬁgure mail notiﬁcation
To make LSF email the user when a job is suspended after reaching the retry threshold, set LSB_MC_INITFAIL_MAIL in lsf.conf to y:
LSB_MC_INITFAIL_MAIL = y 
By default, LSF does not notify the user.
Pending MultiCluster job limit
IBM Spectrum LSF 951

The pending MultiCluster job limit determines the maximum number of MultiCluster jobs that can be pending in the queue. The queue rejects jobs
from remote clusters when this limit is reached. It does not matter how many MultiCluster jobs are running in the queue, or how many local jobs are
running or pending.
By default, the limit is 50 pending MultiCluster jobs.
Conﬁgure a pending MultiCluster job limit
Edit IMPT_JOBBKLG in lsb.queues, and specify the maximum number of MultiCluster jobs from remote clusters that can be pending in the queue.
This prevents jobs from being over-committed to an execution cluster with limited resources.
If you specify the keyword inﬁnit, the queue will accept an inﬁnite number of jobs.
Considerations
When you set the limit, consider the following:
Make sure there are enough pending jobs in the queue for LSF to dispatch, in order to make full use of the execution servers. If you use
advance reservation, set the limit higher to allow for the pending jobs that are waiting to use a reservation.
Make sure the queue does not ﬁll up with so many MultiCluster jobs that LSF cannot dispatch them all in the near future.
Therefore, estimate your expected job flow and set the limit 50% or 100% higher than the estimate.
Example
Assume that locally submitted jobs do not occupy all the available resources, so you estimate that each processor can schedule and execute 2
MultiCluster jobs per scheduling session. To make full use of the job slots, and make sure the queue never runs out of jobs to dispatch, set the limit at
3 or 4 jobs per processor: if this queue has 20 processors, set the limit to allow 60 or 80 MultiCluster jobs pending. You expect to run about 40 of
them immediately, and the remainder only wait for one scheduling cycle.
Update pending reason for MultiCluster jobs
By default, the pending reasons for MultiCluster jobs are updated every 5 minutes by the execution cluster, but the maximum amount of data
transferred between clusters is 512 KB. If LSF cannot update the pending reasons for all jobs at once, it will update the additional jobs during the
next cycles.
You can disable the feature or modify how often the pending reasons are updated and how much data can be transferred at one time. Depending on
load, updating the information very frequently or sending an unlimited amount of information can affect the performance of LSF.
Conﬁgure the pending reason updating interval
 Conﬁgure the pending reason update package size
 
Conﬁgure the pending reason updating interval
About this task
Change the timing of pending reason updating between clusters.
Procedure
1. Set MC_PENDING_REASON_UPDATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params in the execution cluster.
2. Specify how often to update the information in the submission cluster, in seconds.
To disable pending reason updating between clusters, specify zero:
MC_PENDING_REASON_UPDATE_INTERVAL=0 
Conﬁgure the pending reason update package size
About this task
Change the package size of each pending reason update.
952    IBM Spectrum LSF

Procedure
1. Set MC_PENDING_REASON_PKG_SIZE in lsb.params in the execution cluster.
2. Specify the maximum package size, in KB.
To disable the limit and allow any amount of data in one package, specify zero:
MC_PENDING_REASON_PKG_SIZE=0 
This parameter has no effect if pending reason updating is disabled (MC_PENDING_REASON_UPDATE_INTERVAL=0).
Remote timeout limit
The remote timeout limit is set in the submission cluster and determines how long a MultiCluster job stays pending in the execution cluster. After the
allowed time, the job returns to the submission cluster to be rescheduled.
The remote timeout limit in seconds is:
MAX_RSCHED_TIME(lsb.queues) * MBD_SLEEP_TIME(lsb.params) 
In a default installation, MBD_SLEEP_TIME is 20 seconds and the multiplying factor for MultiCluster is 20, so the timeout limit is normally 400
seconds.
Problem with remote-only queues
By default, LSF queues dispatch jobs in FCFS order. However, there is one case in which the default behavior can be a problem. This is when a send-
jobs queue sends to only one remote queue, and never uses local hosts.
In this case, jobs that time out in the receive-jobs cluster can only be re-dispatched to the same receive-jobs queue. When this happens, the receive-
jobs queue takes the re-dispatched job as a new submission, gives it a new job ID, and gives it lowest priority in FCFS ordering. In this way, the
highest-priority MultiCluster job times out and then becomes the lowest-priority job. Also, since local jobs don’t time out, the MultiCluster jobs get a
lower priority than local jobs that have been pending for less time.
To make sure that jobs are always dispatched in the original order, you can disable remote timeout for the send-jobs queue.
Disable timeout
To disable remote timeout, edit MAX_RSCHED_TIME in lsb.queues in the submission cluster, and specify the keyword INFINIT. This increases the
remote timeout limit to inﬁnity.
Even if the limit is set to inﬁnity, jobs time out if a remote execution cluster gets reconﬁgured. However, all the pending jobs time out at once, so
when the queue attempts to send them again, the original priority is maintained.
Enable job priority in MultiCluster job forward mode
User-assigned job priority is supported in MultiCluster job forwarding mode. Use bsub -sp to specify a user-assigned job priority that orders all jobs
from all users in a queue. Jobs submitted with -sp are passed to the execution cluster with the speciﬁed priority.
Specify a job priority (bsub -sp)
 Conﬁgure maximum job priority
 
Specify a job priority (bsub -sp)
Valid values for priority speciﬁed by bsub -sp are any integers between 1 and MAX_USER_PRIORITY (conﬁgured in lsb.params, displayed by
bparams -l). Job priorities that are not valid are rejected. LSF and queue administrators can specify priorities beyond MAX_USER_PRIORITY.
Job owners can change the priority of their own jobs. LSF and queue administrators can change the priority of all jobs in a queue.
Job order is the ﬁrst consideration to determine job eligibility for dispatch. Jobs are still subject to all scheduling policies regardless of job priority.
Jobs are scheduled based on priority and order in the queue, in the following order:
1. Queue priority
2. Job priority
IBM Spectrum LSF 953

3. First-come ﬁrst-served order in the queue
Administrators can conﬁgure user-assigned job priority with automatic job priority escalation to automatically increase the priority of jobs that have
been pending for a speciﬁed period of time (JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME in lsb.params). For example, JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME=1/1 increases
the job priority of a pending job by 1 every minute.
For job priority escalation to take effect on pending jobs in the execution cluster, JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME must be deﬁned in lsb.params in the
execution cluster. MAX_USER_PRIORITY must be deﬁned in lsb.params in the execution cluster for the job priority speciﬁed in submission cluster to
be propagated to execution cluster.
Note:
The btop and bbot commands only move jobs within the queue relative to other jobs with the same priority. These commands do not change job
priority.
Job priority scaling
If both clusters have different values for MAX_USER_PRIORITY, the execution cluster will scale up or down when the job is forwarded to the
execution cluster.
Job priority scaling is based on the following formula:
job_priority = submission_job_priority * MAX_USER_PRIORITY_exec_cluster / MAX_USER_PRIORITY_sub_cluster
Where:
submission_job_priority is the job priority in the submission cluster
job_priority is the calculated job priority in submission cluster based on the summission job priority, the MAX_USER_PRIORITY of the
execution cluster and the MAX_USER_PRIORITY of the submission cluster
The scaled job priority cannot drop below 1.
The bjobs -l command from the submission cluster displays the initial job priority and the dynamic job priority of submission cluster. It does not
display dynamic job priority for execution cluster.
For example, if MAX_USER_PRIORITY in the submission cluster is 10 and MAX_USER_PRIORITY in the execution cluster is 20, a job submitted with
a job priority of 4 will have a job priority of 8 in the execution cluster.
Conﬁgure maximum job priority
About this task
User-assigned job priorities are supported in MultiCluster job forwarding mode. Jobs submitted with -sp are passed to the execution cluster with the
speciﬁed priority.
To set up maximum user-assigned job priority, do the following:
Procedure
1. Conﬁgure maximum user-assigned job priority in both the submission cluster and the execution cluster.
Edit lsb.params and deﬁne MAX_USER_PRIORITY. This conﬁguration applies to all queues in the cluster.
MAX_USER_PRIORITY=integer
Speciﬁes the maximum priority a user can assign to a job. Specify a positive integer. Larger values represent higher priority. 1 is the lowest
priority. For example, MAX_USER_PRIORITY=100 speciﬁes that 100 is the maximum job priority that a user can specify. LSF and queue
administrators can assign a job priority higher than the MAX_USER_PRIORITY value for jobs they own.
2. Use bparams -l to display the value of MAX_USER_PRIORITY.
Enhance fair share calculation to include the job forwarding mode
You can enhance the calculations for the fair share policies to account for the forwarding mode in the LSF multicluster capability, which charges the
user priority for each job forwarded, providing a fair opportunity for all users to forward their jobs. This policy charges the priority of the user whose
job is successfully forwarded to the remote execution cluster, and restores the charge for the user whose job is returned from the remote execution
cluster.
954    IBM Spectrum LSF

See more information on global fair share scheduling in Global fair share scheduling.
Enabling and conﬁguring fair share scheduling for the LSF multicluster capability
job forwarding model
Include forwarded jobs for the LSF multicluster capability in the fair share calculations by deﬁning the following parameters:
FWD_JOB_FACTOR=number in the lsb.params or lsb.queues ﬁles.
Specify the weighting factor to indicate the relative importance of the number of forwarded job slots in the user priority calculation. Set this
parameter cluster-wide in the lsb.params ﬁle, or for an individual queue in the lsb.queues ﬁle. If deﬁned in both ﬁles, the queue value takes
precedence. To treat remote jobs and local jobs as the same, set FWD_JOB_FACTOR to the same value as RUN_JOB_FACTOR unless you want
a different weighting factor for forwarded jobs.
LSF_MC_FORWARD_fair share_CHARGE_DURATION=seconds in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
When accounting for forwarded jobs in the fair share calculations, job usage might be counted twice if global fair share is used because job
usage is counted on the submission cluster, then counted again when the job is running on a remote cluster. To avoid this problem, specify the
duration of time after which LSF removes the forwarded jobs from the user priority calculation for fair share scheduling by specifying the
LSF_MC_FORWARD_fair share_CHARGE_DURATION parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle. If you enabled global fair share and intend to use the new
forwarded job slots factor, set the value of LSF_MC_FORWARD_fair share_CHARGE_DURATION to double the value of the SYNC_INTERVAL
parameter in the lsb.globalpolicies ﬁle (approximately 5 minutes) to avoid double-counting the job usage for forwarded jobs. If global fair
share is not enabled, this parameter is not needed.
Tuning IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster: best practices
Learn about best practices for tuning your LSF multicluster environment.
Understand the job forwarding flow
Job forwarding between clusters is queue-to-queue. On the submission cluster side, queues use the queue named in the SNDJOBS_TO parameter
(of the lsb.queues ﬁle) to specify queues in remote clusters to which jobs can be sent. For remote queues to accept jobs from a cluster, the queues
must explicitly allow it with the RCVJOBS_FROM parameter.
Use the HOSTS parameter in submission queues to specify whether jobs are allowed to run in the submission cluster, or if they will only run in remote
clusters.
In each scheduling session, LSF will ﬁrst try to run jobs in the local cluster, if conﬁgured. If a job cannot be dispatched immediately in the local
cluster, then LSF will consider forwarding the job to one of the remote clusters.
Once a job has been forwarded to a remote cluster, the scheduler in the remote cluster tries to schedule the job. if the job has not been dispatched
after some time, it returns to the submission cluster and the process repeats.
Set the import backlog limit on remote queues
With receiving queues, the IMPT_JOBBKLG parameter (set in the lsb.queues ﬁle) limits the number forwarded jobs that can be pending in the queue.
Compare this parameter usage with the IMPT_TASKBKLG parameter, which limits the pending job tasks in the queue.
The default value for IMPT_JOBBKLG is 50 jobs. This limit helps to ensure that jobs do not have long to wait in a remote cluster. It gives jobs a better
chance to run on the submission cluster, and avoids having jobs time out on the remote cluster and be returned to the submission cluster. This limit
also helps to balance the load between multiple execution clusters.
For a high throughput environment, you can increase the import backlog limit. Ideally, when there is workload on the submission side, then there
should also consistently be a backlog of pending jobs on the execution side. If a queue on the execution side runs out of workload, then resources in
the execution cluster can go unused.
Monitor queues in the submission and execution queues to ensure that whenever there are jobs pending on the submission queue, there are also
pending jobs on the remote queue. If the remote queue is running out of jobs even when there are jobs pending on the submission queue, then
consider increasing the IMPT_JOBBKLG value on the remote queue.
Set the job forwarding rate
By default, an LSF cluster will forward up to 50 jobs per scheduling session to remote clusters. You can control the job forwarding rate by conﬁguring
the LSB_MAX_FORWARD_PER_SESSION parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle.
To adjust the maximum number of jobs that will be forwarded per scheduling session, conﬁgure LSB_MAX_FORWARD_PER_SESSION=integer in the
lsb.params ﬁle.
IBM Spectrum LSF 955

The purpose of this policy is to limit the load on the management daemons in the submission cluster. However, for high throughput environments,
this is far too restrictive.
As with the import backlog limits (set in the IMPT_JOBBKLG parameter), if this job forwarding limit is too small, then the rate at which jobs are
forwarded might not keep up with the rate at which they are dispatched in the execution clusters.
For very large environments, you can set the LSB_MAX_FORWARD_PER_SESSION value to several thousands. Make sure to monitor the scheduling
cycle time in (visible from the badmin perfmon view command output), to ensure that the scheduler remains running at a reasonable rate. A
scheduler cycle of more than 15 seconds is reasonable.
Tune the rescheduling timeout value
When a job is forwarded to a remote cluster, it remains pending in the remote cluster until either it is dispatched, or it reaches the pending timeout
value, controlled by the MAX_RSCHED_TIME parameter in the lsb.queues ﬁle in the submission cluster.
Upon reaching the time limit, the job returns to the submission cluster, so that it can run in the submission cluster or be forwarded to another cluster.
Ideally, most forwarded jobs should run without being returned. You can check if a job was forwarded and returned by running the bhist –l
command. When a job returns, it will shows a status event, such as Pending: Remote schedule time reached, waiting for
rescheduling.
If a large portion of jobs are returned, consider raising the MAX_RSCHED_TIME timeout value.
Preserve job submission order
By default, jobs are ordered in remote clusters by forwarding time, rather than by original submission time. Every time that a job is forwarded, it
starts at the bottom of the queue. For jobs that are difﬁcult to place (for instance, because of special resource requirements), this prioritization policy
can cause them to go back and forth between clusters multiple times.
To ensure that jobs are ordered according to their submission time instead of forwarding time, set MC_SORT_BY_SUBMIT_TIME=Y in the lsb.params
ﬁle. This can give hard-to-place jobs a better chance to run when they are forwarded.
Delay job forwarding
When a job is submitted, LSF ﬁrst tries to try to place the job in the submission cluster. If the job cannot be dispatched, then LSF immediately
considers forwarding the job to a remote cluster.
In some cases, it can be preferable to keep trying to dispatch a job in the submission cluster for a period of time, rather than immediately forwarding
the job. For example, in a cloud bursting scenario where the submission cluster is on-premises, and the remote cluster is in a public cloud, it can be
cheaper to run jobs on-premises when possible.
You can set the MC_FORWARD_DELAY parameter in the lsb.queues to tell LSF to try scheduling a job, in seconds, on the submission side for the
given number of seconds before forwarding the job to a remote cluster.
Conﬁgure LSF to consider special resources
By default, LSF does not consider host resources in remote clusters when making forwarding decisions. As a result, jobs that require special
resources can end up forwarded to clusters where the resources do not exist.
If there are special host resources that are available in only some clusters, then conﬁgure LSF to consider these resources when making forwarding
decisions. Set the MC_RESOURCE_MATCHING_CRITERIA parameter in the lsb.params ﬁle on the remote side to
MC_RESOURCE_MATCHING_CRITERIA=rc1 rc2 ..., where rc1 and rc2 are LSF numeric and string resources.
Also, consider to group hosts with special resources into a single cluster so that jobs that require these resources will have the best chance of
dispatching once forwarded.
Consider fair share on job forwarding
By default, LSF does not consider forwarded jobs in a dynamic priority calculation. Rather, it only considers the resource usage by jobs that run in the
submission cluster. As a result, when LSF considers job forwarding, the job may all come from the same user with highest fair share priority, rather
than reflecting the sharing ratios speciﬁed in the fair share policy.
For LSF to consider forwarded jobs in fair share dynamic priority, conﬁgure the FWD_JOB_FACTOR parameter in the lsb.params (or lsb.queues) ﬁle.
As a starting point, conﬁgure the FWD_JOB_FACTOR value to be equal to the RUN_JOB_FACTOR value.
Caution when conﬁguring scheduling limits on remote clusters
It is useful in many cases to conﬁgure scheduling policies on remote clusters, such as limits, guarantee policies, and so on. However, beware that
jobs are forwarded without consideration for these policies. For example, suppose that you have conﬁgured a per-user limit of ten jobs on a remote
956    IBM Spectrum LSF