lsf.conf parameter ego.conf parameter
LSF_LOG_MASK EGO_LOG_MASK
LSF_MASTER_LIST EGO_MASTER_LIST
LSF_PIM_INFODIR EGO_PIM_INFODIR
LSF_PIM_SLEEPTIME EGO_PIM_SLEEPTIME
Parameters that have changed in LSF
The default for LSF_LIM_PORT has changed to accommodate EGO default port conﬁguration. On EGO, default ports start with lim at 7869, and are
numbered consecutively for pem, vemkd, and egosc.
This is different from previous LSF releases where the default LSF_LIM_PORT was 6879. res, sbatchd, and mbatchd continue to use the default pre-
version 7 ports 6878, 6881, and 6882.
Upgrade installation preserves existing port settings for lim, res, sbatchd, and mbatchd. EGO pem, vemkd, and egosc use default EGO ports
starting at 7870, if they do not conflict with existing lim, res, sbatchd, and mbatchd ports.
EGO connection ports and base port
On every host, a set of connection ports must be free for use by LSF and EGO components.
LSF and EGO require exclusive use of certain ports for communication. EGO uses the same four consecutive ports on every host in the cluster. The
ﬁrst of these is called the base port.
The default EGO base connection port is 7869. By default, EGO uses four consecutive ports starting from the base port. By default, EGO uses ports
7869-7872.
The ports can be customized by customizing the base port. For example, if the base port is 6880, EGO uses ports 6880-6883.
LSF and EGO needs the same ports on every host, so you must specify the same base port on every host.
Check LSF
Before you begin
The LIM and mbatchd must be running on the management host and on the submission host (the host from which you run the command).
Procedure
1. Verify the LSF daemon conﬁguration:
C:\LSF_10.1.0>badmin ckconfig -v
The following message appears: No errors found.
2. Run some basic commands and check the status: OK (hosts) and Open:Active (queues):
bhosts
bqueues
3. Display the default queue:
C:\lsf\bin>bparams
4. Submit a test job to the default queue named normal:
C:\lsf\10.1.0\bin> bsub sleep 60
Job <1> is submitted to default queue <normal>.
Note that the LSF installer for Windows sets "Log on as batch job" rights on Windows execution hosts as a basic requirement to run jobs.
5. Display the job status:
C:\lsf\10.1.0\bin> bjobs
If all hosts are busy, the job is not started immediately and the STAT column says PEND. The job sleep 60 should take one minute to run.
When the job completes, LSF sends mail reporting the job completion.
LSF default user mapping
The default user mapping in LSF has no effect on a UNIX-only cluster. You do not need to understand this feature unless your cluster includes
Windows hosts.
1972    IBM Spectrum LSF

About LSF default user mapping
The default user mapping determines whether you can specify a Windows user in LSF by the user name alone. In a mixed cluster, it also speciﬁes
whether a Windows user account maps to a UNIX account of the same name, to allow cross-platform operation.
How LSF default user mapping works
If you specify an LSF user domain, the default user mapping is enabled. For a multiple-domain Windows environment on a UNIX-Windows mixed
cluster, you can specify an unlimited number of Windows domains as the LSF user domain.
When the default user mapping is enabled,
A user name speciﬁed without a domain is interpreted (on a Windows host) as belonging to the LSF user domain
A user name speciﬁed with the domain name of the LSF user domain is stripped of the domain name
Mixed clusters
In a mixed UNIX-Windows environment, if your Windows account in the LSF user domain has the same user name as your UNIX account, LSF's
default user mapping lets LSF schedule and track jobs from both accounts as if they belong to a single user. On the execution host, LSF automatically
runs the job using whichever of the two accounts is appropriate for that host.
To submit cross-platform jobs when your accounts have different user names in different environments, you should conﬁgure user account mapping
for individual users.
Multiple domain accounts
To run jobs, the existing domain trust relationships apply in LSF, so if the execution domain trusts the submission domain, your job can run in the
execution domain under your submission account.
If a user domain is… Then LSF treats the Windows and UNIX user as…
Speciﬁed by the parameter LSF_USER_DOMAIN The same user
Not speciﬁed by the parameter LSF_USER_DOMAINDifferent users
Accounts with the same user name in different domains are still treated as separate users by LSF.
You can use the environment variable LSF_EXECUTE_DOMAIN to specify only one of the domains listed in LSF_USER_DOMAIN. When you specify an
execution domain, LSF runs the job using the speciﬁed domain user account, without trying all of the domain accounts in the order listed in
LSF_USER_DOMAIN.
Local accounts
If your local account has the same user name and password on every Windows host, LSF's default user mapping lets LSF schedule and track jobs
from all hosts as if they belong to a single user. On the execution host, LSF automatically runs the job using the local user account.
If your accounts have different user names in different environments, you should conﬁgure user account mapping.
Installation examples
In the following examples, assume you are User1, and you have a valid user account in three Windows domains as well as a valid UNIX account. Not
all the accounts can be used with LSF. Depending on the type of cluster, and the way you install the cluster, here are the different ways that LSF is
conﬁgured:
Install or upgrade a UNIX-only cluster
No mapping. You have one UNIX account, and LSF recognizes one user: user1 (UNIX account)
Install a new Windows-only cluster
No mapping. You have three Windows accounts. For purposes of fair share, per-user job slot limits, displaying statistical data, and so on, LSF
recognizes three separate users:
DOMAINA\user1
DOMAINB\user1
DOMAINC\user1
Create a new UNIX-Windows cluster
You must enable default user mapping for one of your Windows accounts (such as Domain 
A) so that you can run cross-platform jobs between UNIX and Windows. LSF recognizes three separate users:
user1 (your UNIX and Domain A accounts are treated as a single LSF user)
DOMAINB\user1
DOMAINC\user1
IBM Spectrum LSF 1973

If you never run cross-platform jobs, you might choose to disable default user mapping by not specifying an LSF user domain. LSF then recognizes
four separate users:
user1 (UNIX account)
DOMAINA\user1
DOMAINB\user1
DOMAINC\user1
You can specify multiple domains when you deﬁne LSF_USER_DOMAIN, which will allow users to submit jobs from a UNIX host in a multiple-domain
Windows environment.
Specify user names
In a Windows cluster or mixed UNIX-Windows cluster, in a domain environment, LSF users in different Windows domains might have the same user
name. Because of this, LSF uses the Windows domain name with the user name, to differentiate the users.
User name only
When the default mapping is enabled, the user name alone speciﬁes a user in the LSF user domain. The combination of a user name plus the domain
name of the LSF user domain is not used in LSF.
Domain name with user name
Default mapping disabled
All Windows user accounts are speciﬁed using the domain name with the user name. There is no LSF user domain.
Default mapping enabled
User accounts in all domains except for the LSF user domain are speciﬁed using the domain name with the user name.
How to specify a user name with a domain name
Unless a Windows user account belongs to the LSF user domain (LSF_USER_DOMAIN in lsf.conf), the combination of domain name and user name
speciﬁes a Windows domain user in LSF. The syntax is:
[DOMAIN_NAME|.]\user_name
Type the domain name in capital letters. Use a period (.) instead of a domain name to specify a local account instead of a domain account.
UNIX systems interpret the single backslash as a special character, so on UNIX you have to use a double backslash to specify the domain name in
the command line:
Windows
bjobs -u MYDOMAIN\user1
UNIX
bjobs -u MYDOMAIN\\user1
View user names
Use bjobs -w to view information about jobs and see the full name of a Windows user, including domain name.
When you run bjobs, the default is to truncate user names, and display the names of Windows users without the domain name.
Windows user authentication
LSF recognizes UNIX and Windows authentication environments, including different Windows domains and individual Windows workgroup hosts.
In a Windows domain environment, user accounts are validated at the domain level, and your user account is valid on all hosts in your domain
(and might be valid in other domains, if there is a trust relationship).
In a Windows workgroup environment, each host authenticates the user account, so your local account is only valid on one host.
lspasswd command
You must use lspasswd or wgpasswd to register and update user names and passwords. The password must be 31 characters or less.
You can run lspasswd on Windows in a non-shared ﬁle system environment. You must deﬁne the parameter LSF_MASTER_LIST in lsf.conf so that
jobs will run with the correct permissions. If this parameter is not deﬁned, LSF assumes that the cluster uses a shared ﬁle system environment.
You can also run lspasswd to check that the password is valid for the speciﬁed user, or to remove a user entry from the password database.
1974    IBM Spectrum LSF

Password problem notiﬁcation on Windows
A Windows job may not be able to run because of a problem with the user's LSF password (entered and updated using lspasswd). If LSF does not
recognize the password, the problem could be:
The Windows user account password was never registered with LSF with lspasswd.
The password in Windows changed but was not updated in LSF with lspasswd.
If a job is in PEND state and LSF cannot run it because of a password problem, by default, LSF puts the job into USUSP and then notiﬁes the user by
email. The user can ﬁx the problem, and then use bresume to release the job from USUSP.
Conﬁgure LSF default user mapping
About this task
Whenever you make any change to default user mapping, you affect users in the old LSF user domain and in the new LSF user domain. If you specify
a new LSF user domain, users in both domains will have to use lspasswd to register their new names and passwords.
If users in the old and new LSF user domain have the same user name (such as olddomain\user1 and newdomain\user1), then the user1
account is already registered with LSF, and the user from the new LSF user domain has to change the password. To change the password, he must
input the current password, which was set by the old user.
Procedure
To enable or modify default user mapping after you install LSF, set LSF_USER_DOMAIN in lsf.conf and specify the LSF user domain:
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=DomainA
You can also specify multiple domains:
LSF_USER_DOMAIN=DomainA:DomainB:DomainC
What to do next
Depending on the cluster conﬁguration, you might have to redeﬁne the service accounts, cluster administrators, queue administrators, user group
memberships, and so on, so that your cluster remains operational after you restart the cluster.
Syntax substitution for Windows user names
In LSF, a username is represented by the syntax:
user_name
If your cluster includes Windows hosts, the full syntax for a user account on Windows is:
[DOMAIN_NAME\ | .\]user_name
Always type the domain name in capital letters.
LSF commands
In the following LSF commands, use the full syntax to specify a username.
bchkpnt
bdel
bhist
bjobs
bkill
bmig
bmod
brequeue
bresume
bstop
bsub
bswitch
busers
lsacct
lspasswd
LSF ﬁles
In the following conﬁguration ﬁles and parameters, use the full syntax to specify a username.
lsb.hosts
USER_SHARES
IBM Spectrum LSF 1975