Control the execution environment using job starters
About this task
If running jobs on a Windows execution host, you cannot use the command bsub -L. Instead, LSF provides two job starters that apply the user
environment of the execution host.
By default, the job starter executables are installed in LSF_BINDIR. If you prefer to store them elsewhere, make sure they are in a directory that is
included in the default PATH on the execution host.
For example, on Windows, put the job starter under %WINDIR%.
The source code for the job starters is installed in LSF_TOP\10.1.0\examples.
Procedure
Use either of the two following starter scripts to run jobs on a Windows execution host:
preservestarter: Preserves the default user environment of the execution host; does not include any submission host settings
augmentstarter: Augments the default user environment of the execution host by adding settings from the submission host that are not
already deﬁned on the execution host
Dynamic IP addressing for LSF hosts
DHCP (Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol) enables individual computers on an IP network to extract their conﬁgurations from particular machines
(DHCP servers) that have no exact information about the individual computers until they request the information. This reduces the work necessary to
administer a large IP network. The most signiﬁcant piece of information distributed in this manner is the IP address.
How LSF works with dynamic IP addressing
LSF hosts running Windows can be conﬁgured as DHCP clients, which means their IP address is dynamic. Users who dial in or connect from a remote
location might be assigned a different IP address with each connection.
The DHCP server issues an IP address to the LSF host, but LSF gets the IP address from DNS (Domain Name System). A WINS (Windows Internet
Naming Service) server synchronizes information between the DHCP and DNS servers.
The IP address should not be changed while there are active TCP/IP connections with the host, for example, while installing LSF or running LSF
commands. Normally, the IP address is maintained until the host is restarted or until the network connection is broken.
If an LSF client host is assigned a new IP address, wait for WINS to update DNS before using that host to run LSF.
LSF client hosts
LSF client hosts can be DHCP clients and can change their IP addresses anytime in a running cluster.
LSF server hosts
Installing dynamic hosts on Windows allows support for dynamic IP addressing for LSF server hosts using DHCP.
LSF server hosts can be DHCP clients and can change their IP addresses anytime in a running cluster. The management host also saves the server
host IP address.
Set up DHCP clients
Before you begin
To use DHCP with LSF, your system must include all of the following:
DHCP server
WINS server
DNS server
LSF hosts acting as DHCP clients
Install Microsoft DNS server and WINS server on the same machine.
Procedure
1. Conﬁgure a short cache timeout value on the WINS server.
The Cache Timeout Value for the WINS Lookup of the DNS should be as short as possible (the 10-minute default may be acceptable, but this
should not be increased).
IBM Spectrum LSF 1977