2. Enable dynamic IP addressing for the LSF cluster.
a. Conﬁgure the following parameter in lsf.conf: LSF_DHCP_ENV=Y
b. Reconﬁgure the cluster:
lsadmin reconfig 
badmin reconfig
LSF checks for any conﬁguration errors. If no fatal errors are found, you are asked to conﬁrm reconﬁguration. If fatal errors are found,
reconﬁguration is aborted.
Displaying a GUI in LSF with Microsoft Terminal Services
Use Microsoft Terminal Services to run jobs to display a GUI (graphic user interface) on remote hosts in LSF.
Environment variables
The following environment variables are available for Remote Desktop Services jobs:
LSF_LOGON_DESKTOP
When LSF_LOGON_DESKTOP=1, jobs run in interactive foreground sessions. This allows GUIs to be displayed on the submission host. If this
parameter is not deﬁned, jobs run in the background.
LSB_TSJOB
When the LSB_TSJOB variable is deﬁned to any value, it indicates to LSF that the job is a Terminal Services job.
LSF_TS_LOGON_TIME
Speciﬁes the time to create a Windows Remote Desktop Service session. You should conﬁgure LSF_TS_LOGON_TIME according to your
network environment. This parameter only affects Terminal Services jobs dispatched to the Windows Server host, not Terminal Services jobs
on the Windows client version host.
The default, 300000 milliseconds is suitable for most environments. For a congested network, set LSF_TS_LOGON_TIME=1000000
Conﬁguration ﬁles
To dispatch a Terminal Services jobs to Windows client hosts, set the following parameters in lsf.conf after installation, then restart the LIM (by
running lsadmin limrestart all) and restart the TSJobHelper Windows service on the execution hosts and helper hosts to apply the changes to these
parameters:
LSB_TSJOBS_HELPER_HOSTS
Lists the Terminal Services job helper hosts. Specify a list of host names separated by blank space. Helper hosts must be LSF servers in the
LSF cluster. Conﬁgure a maximum of 256 hosts in the list.
The local helper service will select one host from the list and send requests to the helper to create a user session. If the host fails to create the
user session, the next helper host in the list will be tried. The local helper service will not select itself as helper host.
For stability, you should conﬁgure one helper host for every 40 execution hosts.
TSJobHelper must be running under the LocalSystem account. The Terminal Services job helper service has two functions:
Help create a user session. The local helper service running on the job execution host sends requests to the remote helper service
running on a helper host. The remote helper host will call back to trigger creation of a user session.
Help launch the LSF job across sessions. On the job execution host, the service accepts job startup information from child sbatchd and
launches the job RES across sessions. The job will run in the job execution session for the user.
To install the TSJobHelper service, run TSJobHelper -i from the command line. To uninstall the service, run TSJobHelper -u. TSJobHelper
is located under LSF_TOP\10.1.0\etc.
LSB_TSJOBS_HELPER_PORT
This is a service port to use for communication with TSJobHelper. TSJobHelper uses this port to communicate with the helper hosts.
LSB_TSJOBS_HELPER_TIMEOUT
The maximum time out that the local TSJobHelper service waits for a helper host to reply. After time out, the local service tries the next
helper host in the LSB_TSJOBS_HELPER_HOSTS list.
Conﬁgure post-execution job processing
To dispatch a Terminal Services jobs to Windows client hosts, enable post-execution job processing as part of the job. You may enable post-
execution job processing to dispatch Terminal Services jobs to Windows client hosts for the following:
Cluster: To enable the dispatching of Terminal Services jobs in the cluster to Windows client hosts, set JOB_INCLUDE_POSTPROC=y in the
lsb.params ﬁle, then reconﬁgure mbatchd (by running badmin reconﬁg) to apply the change to this parameter.
Application: To enable the dispatching of Terminal Services jobs in a speciﬁc application to Windows client hosts, set
JOB_INCLUDE_POSTPROC=y for the speciﬁc application proﬁle in the lsb.applications ﬁle, then reconﬁgure mbatchd (by running badmin
reconﬁg) to apply the change to this parameter.
1978    IBM Spectrum LSF

Job: To enable the dispatching of a speciﬁc Terminal Services jobs to Windows client hosts, set the JOB_INCLUDE_POSTPROC environment
variable, then submit the Terminal Services job.
Job submission
1. Submit the job with tssub instead of bsub. tssub is a wrapper around the bsub command which only submits jobs to hosts that have the msts
resource.
2. tssub sets the LSB_TSJOB and LSF_LOGON_DESKTOP environment variables. These variables are then transferred to the execution host.
If the job is dispatched to a host in which Terminal Services is not installed or properly conﬁgured, the job is set to the PEND state and a
pending reason is written in sbatchd.log.host_name.
If tssub -I is speciﬁed, a terminal display is visible on the submission host after the job has been started.
If the job is not a GUI job, LSF runs a command window and output is displayed in the command window when something is written to
stdout.
Pre- and post-execution commands are executed within the session in which sbatchd runs. The job does not complete until post-
execution commands complete.
3. View job output with the command tspeek. If the terminal window is closed, the job remains running. You can reconnect to view the job with
tspeek.
Limitations
A job submitted as a Remote Desktop Services job cannot be modiﬁed to become a non-Remote Desktop Services job with bmod.
The bsub option -o out_ﬁle is not supported for tssub.
Compound resource requirements are not supported for Remote Desktop Services jobs.
Only Windows bsub options are supported for tssub. For example, you cannot use the options -Ip, -Is, -L login_shell of bsub with tssub.
tssub cannot run successfully on Windows 2016 under default settings. To resolve this issue, set SecurityLayer to 0 or 1 in the following
registry key: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ Terminal Server\WinStations\RDP-Tcp
The default value of SecurityLayer is 2 on Windows Server 2016, but this value must be smaller than 2 for tssub to run successfully.
If user mapping is deﬁned, the user who invokes tspeek must have the required privileges to access the session.
If you are planning to run TSJobHelper service on a Windows host, LSF must apply the non-shared conﬁguration directory when installing.
IBM Spectrum LSF multicluster capability is not supported.
The automation of mouse and keyboard events are not supported.
Requirements
All submission hosts must have the Remote Desktop Services Full Client Windows Installer (MSI) package installed and enabled. This package
contains the required Microsoft Terminal Services Advanced Client ActiveX Control. Download it from the Microsoft web site.
All execution server hosts must use Windows Server operating systems, such as Windows Server 2016.
To run Terminal Services jobs on Windows hosts, you must install Terminal Server Role.
All execution server hosts must have the Remote Desktop Access enabled.
Remote Desktop Services server hosts can be in a different domain from submission hosts as long as the user can be authenticated by both
domains.
The service account on Remote Desktop Services server hosts must be a member of the local administrators group.
Your LSF cluster must be working properly.
All submission (client) hosts need the ActiveX control.
Conﬁgure Remote Desktop Services for LSF
Procedure
1. Start the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) Terminal Services Conﬁguration snap-in (Start > Programs > Administrative Tools > Terminal
Services Conﬁguration).
2. Right-click the conﬁguration for which you want to disable the default password setting, and select Properties.
3. Change the logon information.
a. Select Logon Settings > Use client provided logon information.
This ensures you are not using a predeﬁned user to log on to Remote Desktop Services.
IBM Spectrum LSF 1979

b. Clear the Always prompt for password check box.
Future connections no longer force a password entry.
4. Click Apply, then click OK and close the dialog.
Conﬁgure Windows Server 2008 for Terminal Services jobs
About this task
To launch Terminal Services jobs on a Windows 2008 server host, you need to conﬁgure lstsmgr.exe (an LSF binary) and tscon.exe (a Windows
executable ﬁle) as allowed by the RemoteApp programs in RemoteApp Manager on the Windows 2008 server host.
To install the Terminal Server role service:
1. Open Server Manager (Start > Programs > Administrative Tools > Server Manager).
2. In the left pane, right-click Roles, and then click Add Roles.
3. In the Add Roles wizard, on the Before You Begin page, click Next.
4. In the Select Server Roles page, under Roles, select the Terminal Services check box. Click Next.
5. In the Terminal Services page, click Next.
6. In the Select Role Services page, select the Terminal Services check box, and then click Next.
7. In the Uninstall and Reinstall Applications for Compatibility page, click Next.
8. In the Specify Authentication Method for Terminal Server page, select the appropriate authentication method for the terminal server, and then
click Next.
9. In the Specify Licensing Mode page, select the appropriate licensing mode for the terminal server, and then click Next.
10. In the Select User Groups Allowed Access To This Terminal Server page, add the users or user groups to which you want to remotely connect
to this terminal server, and then click Next.
11. In the Conﬁrm Installation Selections page, verify that the Terminal Server role service will be installed, and then click Install. On the
Installation Progress page, installation progress will be noted.
Optionally, you can check the RemoteApp conﬁguration to see if lstsmgr.exe and tscon.exe are listed in the RemoteApp allowed program list after
LSF is installed:
1. Open Terminal Services Remote Manager (Start > Programs > Administrative Tools > Terminal Services, and then click TS RemoteApp
Manager).
2. In the Actions side bar click Add RemoteApp Programs, then click Next.
3. In the RemoteApp wizard, click Browse, then select lstsmgr.exe (in <LSF_TOP>\etc in the list).
4. Select C:\Windows\system32\tscon.exe from the list. Click Next and Finish.
5. Right click the items in the RemoteApp Programs. Click Properties and select Allow any command-line arguments.
Alternatively, you can change Terminal Services settings and select Allow users to start both listed and unlisted programs on initial connection.
Conﬁgure Windows Server 2012 for Terminal Services jobs
About this task
Windows Server 2012 has security enhancements over Windows Server 2008, so to enable Terminal Services jobs for Windows Server 2012:
1980    IBM Spectrum LSF

1. From the Control Panel, select System and Security > System > Remote settings.
2. Select Allow remote connections to this computer.
3. Make sure Allow connections only from computer running Remote Desktop with Network Level Authentication is not checked.
4. Ensure the following registry settings:
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Terminal 
Server\TsAppAllowList\Applications\lstsmgr
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Terminal 
Server\TsAppAllowList\Applications\tscon
5. Set CommandLineSetting to 1
Conﬁgure LSF to run Remote Desktop Services jobs
Procedure
1. Deﬁne the msts static resource.
Edit LSF_CONFDIR\lsf.shared and deﬁne the msts static resource. Note that the resource name must be msts and values for the resource must
be exactly as shown.
Begin Resource 
RESOURCENAME TYPE  INTERVAL INCREASING DESCRIPTION 
... 
msts         Boolean  ()    ()        (Windows Terminal Server) 
... 
End Resource
2. Add the msts resource to hosts.
Edit LSF_CONFDIR\lsf.cluster.cluster_name and add the msts resource to each host on which Terminal Server is installed. For example:
Begin Host 
HOSTNAME   model   type   server r1m pg tmp RESOURCES 
... 
hostA      !       NTX86    1     -   -   - (msts) 
... 
End Host
3. (Optional) Create job starters to preserve a user's environment settings.
You may need to create a job starter script to preserve a user’s environment settings on the execution host.
Use Windows Remote Desktop Services jobs on Windows server hosts
This feature only supports one Remote Desktop Services job running on each Windows host running a Windows server operating system (such as
Windows Server 2016). Additional jobs will be in PEND state, causing mbschd to schedule the extra Remote Desktop Services jobs to the host back
and forth. To avoid this, set a static numeric resource on each Windows host. For example, conﬁgure a static numeric resource, like tsjob and set it
to 1 for each Windows host. The msts resource must also be conﬁgured.
Procedure
1. Add the following line in the lsf.shared ﬁle Resource section:
tsjob Numeric () N (tsjob counter)
2. Add the following line in the lsf.cluster ﬁle in the ResourceMap section:
tsjob (1@[win])
In this example, win is the Windows host name.
Results
A Remote Desktop job will fail on Windows when there is any user logged on the computer before the job is submitted. To avoid this, you should add
ls==0 to the job resource requirement.
To submit a job, use:
tssub -R "ls==0 rusage[tsjob=1]" app
When the job runs, use tspeek to check job display from a Windows host or a Linux host with rdesktop installed.
Submit LSF jobs to Terminal Services hosts (tssub)
Procedure
1. Submit a job to a host with Remote Desktop Services installed by using the tssub command:
tssub myjob
IBM Spectrum LSF 1981