LSF_USER_DOMAIN=LSF
2. Install the Linux compute node as described in the Linux installation guide and allow EGO to control the LSF daemons.
Edit install.conf and add the following line:
EGO_DAEMON_CONTROL=Y
3. Restart the Windows cluster.
egosh ego restart
IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler
Install, conﬁgure, and use IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler (LSF License Scheduler). Learn to make policies that control how your software
application licenses are shared among different users or projects in your organization.
Introduction
 Installing and starting License Scheduler
 LSF License Scheduler concepts
Conﬁguring License Scheduler
 Viewing information and troubleshooting
 Command and conﬁguration reference
 
Introduction
Overview
 Differences between LSF License Scheduler editions
 LSF License Scheduler is available in two editions: Basic Edition and Standard Edition.
Glossary
 Architecture
 
Overview
Applying policies to how licenses are shared can have signiﬁcant beneﬁts both in terms of productivity and cost savings.
Share licenses more easily
IBM® Spectrum LSF License Scheduler (LSF License Scheduler) makes it easy to share licenses between project teams and departments within the
same design center or around the globe. With tools to allocate and monitor licenses, license owners can share licenses not in use, while still ensuring
immediate access to licenses when needed. With more effective sharing, all users perceive a larger pool of licenses.
Ensure appropriate license allocation
License Scheduler enables flexible, hierarchical sharing policies that reflect the needs of the business. During quiet periods, when licenses are not in
contention, licenses can be allocated to anyone who needs them keeping utilization and throughput high. During busy periods, the supply of licenses
can be allocated based on policy toward the most time or revenue critical projects.
Improve service levels and productivity
By ensuring access to a minimum share of licenses and enabling allocation to flex between clusters that are based on need, licenses are more readily
available and jobs are less likely to pend in queues that are awaiting license resources. This translates into reduced wait times and better
productivity, and contributes to a faster, more efﬁcient design environment.
Reduce or avoid cost
By being able to allocate scarce licenses to the most critical projects, and by being able to analyze license usage in the context of cluster resources,
users and projects, planners are better able to ﬁnd and remove bottlenecks, making their existing licenses more productive. With better visibility to
how licenses are being used, they can plan license requirements more effectively ultimately helping to contain costs and boost productivity.
License Scheduler controls the software license sharing in your organization. License Scheduler works with FlexNet™ and Reprise License Manager™
products to control and monitor license usage.
1986    IBM Spectrum LSF

Differences between LSF License Scheduler editions
LSF License Scheduler is available in two editions: Basic Edition and Standard Edition.
LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition is included with LSF Standard Edition and Advanced Edition, and is not intended to apply policies on how
licenses are shared between clusters or projects. Rather, LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition is intended to replace an external load information
manager (elim) to collect external load indices for licenses managed by FlexNet or Reprise License Manager. To replace this elim, LSF License
Scheduler Basic Edition limits the license use of jobs of a single cluster to prevent overuse of the licenses and tracks license use of individual jobs by
matching license checkouts to these jobs.
LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition not only provides cluster mode features for a single cluster, but also provides full LSF License Scheduler
functionality, including support for all modes (cluster mode and project mode), multiple clusters, features and feature groups, and multiple service
domains per license feature. LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition also provides support for taskman jobs.
Important: A LSF License Scheduler entitlement ﬁle (ls.entitlement) is now required to run LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition. Copy the
entitlement ﬁle (ls.entitlement) to the $LSF_ENVDIR directory before starting LSF License Scheduler to run as Standard Edition.
To install and run LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition, download and install the LSF License Scheduler packages as described in Install License
Scheduler, but follow any speciﬁc steps for installing and conﬁguring LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition instead of Standard Edition.
LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition is assumed in all LSF License Scheduler documentation unless it is explicitly stated as describing LSF
License Scheduler Basic Edition.
Glossary
blcollect
The License Scheduler daemon that queries the licensing software for license usage. blcollect collects information from the license manager.
You can spread the load of license collection by running the license information collection daemon on multiple UNIX hosts.
Also called the collector.
bld
The License Scheduler batch daemon.
cluster mode
License tokens are allocated to clusters by License Scheduler, and job scheduling within each cluster is managed by the local mbatchd. Cluster mode
is only available for License Scheduler version 8.0 and later.
Each license feature can use either cluster mode or project mode, but not both.
lmgrd
The main FlexNet licensing daemon. Usually grouped into service domains inside License Scheduler.
project mode
License tokens are allocated to projects by License Scheduler, and job scheduling for license projects takes place across clusters that follow the
license distribution policy that is conﬁgured for each project.
Each license feature can use either cluster mode or project mode, but not both.
service domain
A group of one or more FlexNet license servers.
You conﬁgure the service domain with the license server names and port numbers that serve licenses to a network.
taskman job
A job that is run by theIBM® Spectrum LSF (LSF) Task Manager (taskman) tool outside of LSF, but is scheduled by License Scheduler.
IBM Spectrum LSF 1987

token
One license token represents one actual license, and is used by License Scheduler to track license use and determine which job to dispatch next.
License Scheduler manages license tokens instead of controlling the licenses directly. After they reserve license tokens, jobs are dispatched, then
the application that needs the license is started. The number of tokens available from LSF corresponds to the number of licenses available from the
license server, so if a token is not available, the job is not dispatched.
Architecture
LSF License Scheduler manages license tokens instead of controlling the licenses directly. Using LSF License Scheduler, jobs receive a license token
before starting the application. The number of tokens available from IBM® Spectrum LSF (LSF) corresponds to the number of licenses available from
the license server, so if a token is not available, the job does not start. In this way, the number of licenses that are requested by running jobs does not
exceed the number of available licenses.
When a job starts, the application is not aware of LSF License Scheduler. The application checks out licenses from the license server in the usual
manner.
Figure 1. Daemon interaction
How scheduling policies work
With LSF License Scheduler, LSF gathers information about the licensing requirements of pending jobs to efﬁciently distribute available licenses.
Other LSF scheduling policies are independent from LSF License Scheduler policies.
The basic LSF scheduling comes ﬁrst when starting a job. LSF License Scheduler has no influence on job scheduling priority. Jobs are considered for
dispatch according to the prioritization policies conﬁgured in each cluster.
For example, a job must have a candidate LSF host on which to start before the LSF License Scheduler fair share policy (for the license project this
job belongs to) applies.
Other LSF fair share policies are based on CPU time, run time, and usage. If LSF fair share scheduling is conﬁgured, LSF determines which user or
queue has the highest priority, then considers other resources. In this way, the other LSF fair share policies have priority over LSF License Scheduler.
When the mbatchd  is offline
When a cluster is running, the mbatchd maintains a TCP connection to bld. When the cluster is disconnected (such as when the cluster goes down
or is restarted), the bld removes all information about jobs in the cluster. LSF License Scheduler considers licenses that are checked out by jobs in a
disconnected cluster to be non-LSF use of licenses.
When mbatchd comes back online, the bld immediately receives updated information about the number of tokens that are currently distributed to
the cluster.
When the bld  is offline
If the mbatchd loses the connection with the bld, the mbatchd cannot get bld’s token distribution decisions to update its own.
1988    IBM Spectrum LSF