In both cases, the taskman command accepts only the rusage[f2=2] string.
-h
Prints command usage to stderr and exits.
-V
Prints the LSF License Scheduler release version to stderr and exits.
IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
Install, manage, and use IBM® Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler. Run large collections of short duration tasks within the allocation of a single LSF job
by using a job-level task scheduler that allocates resources for the job once, and reuses the allocated resources for each task. IBM Spectrum LSF
Session Scheduler is ideal for running short jobs, whether they are a list of tasks, or job arrays with parametric execution.
About IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
 LSF Session Scheduler enables users to run large collections of short duration tasks within the allocation of a single LSF job using a job-level
task scheduler that allocates resources for the job once, and reuses the allocated resources for each task. LSF Session Scheduler implements
a hierarchical, personal scheduling paradigm that provides very low-latency execution. With very low latency per job, LSF Session Scheduler is
ideal for executing very short jobs, whether they are a list of tasks, or job arrays with parametric execution.
Installing IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
 LSF Session Scheduler must be deployed on an LSF server host.
How LSF Session Scheduler runs tasks
 Running and monitoring LSF Session Scheduler jobs
 Run LSF Session Scheduler jobs for various scenarios.
Troubleshooting
 Use any of the following methods to troubleshoot your LSF Session Scheduler jobs.
About IBM Spectrum LSF Session Scheduler
LSF Session Scheduler enables users to run large collections of short duration tasks within the allocation of a single LSF job using a job-level task
scheduler that allocates resources for the job once, and reuses the allocated resources for each task. LSF Session Scheduler implements a
hierarchical, personal scheduling paradigm that provides very low-latency execution. With very low latency per job, LSF Session Scheduler is ideal for
executing very short jobs, whether they are a list of tasks, or job arrays with parametric execution.
While traditional LSF job submission, scheduling, and dispatch methods such as job arrays or job chunking are well suited to a mix of long and short
running jobs, or jobs with dependencies on each other, LSF Session Scheduler is ideal for large volumes of independent jobs with short run times.
As clusters grow and the volume of workload increases, the need to delegate scheduling decisions increases. LSF Session Scheduler improves
throughput and performance of the LSF scheduler by enabling multiple tasks to be submitted as a single LSF job.
Each LSF Session Scheduler is dynamically scheduled in a similar manner to a parallel job. Each instance of the ssched command then manages its
own workload within its assigned allocation. Work is submitted as a task array or a task deﬁnition ﬁle.
LSF Session Scheduler satisﬁes the following goals for running a large volume of short jobs:
Minimize the latency when scheduling short jobs
Improve overall cluster utilization and system performance
Allocate resources according to LSF policies
Support existing LSF pre-execution, post-execution programs, job starters, resources limits, etc.
Handle thousands of users and more than 50000 short jobs per user
System requirements
Supported operating systems
LSF Session Scheduler is delivered in the following distribution:
lsf10.1.0_ssched_lnx26-libc23-x64.tar.Z
Required libraries
Note: These libraries may not be installed by default by all Linux distributions.
On Linux 2.6 (x86_64), the following external libraries are required:
libstdc++.so.6
libpthread-2.3.4.so or later
Compatible Linux distributions
Certiﬁed compatible distributions include:
IBM Spectrum LSF 2109

Red Hat Enterprise Linux AS 3 or later
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10
IBM Spectrum LSF
LSF Session Scheduler terminology
Job
A traditional LSF job that is individually scheduled and dispatched to sbatchd by mbatchd and mbschd
Task
Similar to a job, a unit of workload that describes an executable and its environment that runs on an execution node. Tasks are managed and
dispatched by the LSF Session Scheduler.
Job Session
An LSF job that is individually scheduled by mbatchd, but is not dispatched as an LSF job. Instead, a running LSF Session Scheduler job
session represents an allocation of nodes for running large collections of tasks
Scheduler
The component that accepts and dispatches tasks within the nodes allocated for a job session.
Architecture
LSF Session Scheduler jobs are submitted, scheduled, and dispatched like normal LSF jobs.
When the LSF Session Scheduler begins running, it starts one LSF Session Scheduler execution agent on each host in its allocation.
The LSF Session Scheduler then reads in the task deﬁnition ﬁle, which contains a list of tasks to run. Tasks are sent to an execution agent and run.
When a task ﬁnishes, the next task in the list is dispatched to the available host. This continues until all tasks have been run.
Tasks submitted through LSF Session Scheduler bypass the LSF mbatchd and mbschd. The LSF mbatchd is unaware of individual tasks.
Components
LSF Session Scheduler comprises the following components.
LSF Session Scheduler command (ssched)
The ssched command accepts and dispatches tasks within the nodes allocated for a job session. It reads the task deﬁnition ﬁle and sends tasks to
the execution agents. ssched also logs errors, performs task accounting, and requeues tasks as necessary.
sservice and sschild
These components are the execution agents. They run on each remote host in the allocation. They set up the task execution environment, run the
tasks, and enable task monitoring and resource usage collection.
Performance
LSF Session Scheduler has been tested to support up to 50,000 tasks. Based on performance tests, the best maximum allocation size (speciﬁed by
bsub -n) depends on the average runtime of the tasks. Here are some typical results:
Average Runtime (seconds)Recommended maximum allocation size (slots)
0 12
5 64
15 256
30 512
2110    IBM Spectrum LSF