IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
Conﬁgure, manage, and use LSF Data Manager to enable your applications to access the data they require to complete computations unhindered by
the location of the data in relation to the application. LSF Data Manager solves the problem of data locality by staging required data ﬁles as closely as
possible to your applications. You can stage input data from an external source repository to the cluster execution hosts, and stage output data
asynchronously to an external destination repository after job completion.
About IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
 When large amounts of data are required to complete computations, it is desirable that your applications access required data unhindered by
the location of the data in relation to the application execution environment. LSF Data Manager solves the problem of data locality by staging
the required data as closely as possible to the site of the application.
Plan and install IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
 Plan and install IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager in a simple single cluster with a single LSF data manager.
Use IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
 Submit, control and monitor jobs with data requirements to IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager.
Administering IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
 The administrator of IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager is an LSF administrator who performs tasks that are speciﬁc to LSF Data Manager.
Command reference for IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
Use the bsub command to submit a job with data requirements to LSF. Use the bdata command to query and manage IBM Spectrum LSF Data
Manager. The bjobs command displays and ﬁlters information about LSF jobs. Use the bstage command to stage data ﬁles for jobs with data
requirements.
Conﬁguration reference for IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
 To conﬁgure LSF Data Manager and functionality related to it, set parameters in several LSF conﬁguration ﬁles.
About IBM Spectrum LSF Data Manager
When large amounts of data are required to complete computations, it is desirable that your applications access required data unhindered by the
location of the data in relation to the application execution environment. LSF Data Manager solves the problem of data locality by staging the
required data as closely as possible to the site of the application.
Many applications in several domains require large amounts of data: fluid dynamics models for industrial manufacturing, seismic sensory data for oil
and gas exploration, gene sequences for life sciences, among others. Locating these large data sets as close as possible to the application runtime
environment is crucial to maintain optimal utilization of compute resources.
Whether you're running these data-intensive applications in a single cluster or you want to share data and compute resources across geographically
separated clusters, LSF Data Manager provides the following key features.
Input data can be staged from an external source storage repository to a cache that is accessible to the cluster execution hosts.
Output data is staged asynchronously (dependency-free) from the cache after job completion.
Data transfers run separately from the job allocation, which means more jobs can request data without consuming resources while they wait
for large data transfers.
Remote execution cluster selection and cluster afﬁnity are based on data availability in a IBM® Spectrum LSF multicluster capability
environment. LSF Data Manager transfers the required data to the cluster that the job was forwarded to.
Concepts and terminology
 The following concepts and terminology are new and speciﬁc for LSF Data Manager.
How LSF Data Manager works
 Every LSF cluster that shares a staging area also communicates to the same LSF data manager instance. The clusters query the data manager
for the availability of data ﬁles.
Concepts and terminology
The following concepts and terminology are new and speciﬁc for LSF Data Manager.
LSF data manager
The LSF data manager runs on dedicated LSF server hosts. The LSF data manager hosts are conﬁgured to run the LSF data manager daemon (dmd).
The LSF data manager daemon communicates with the clusters it serves, and manages the transfer of data in the staging area.
Tip: Conﬁgure the LSF data manager host as an LSF server host to enable dmd to start automatically when LIM starts.
Query the LSF data manager with the bdata command to get information about the required data ﬁles, LSF data manager conﬁguration, cluster
connections, transfer status, and other information. LSF data manager administrators can use the bdata command to reconﬁgure and shut down
dmd.
IBM Spectrum LSF 2121

LSF data manager administrator
The administrator of IBM® Spectrum LSF Data Manager must be an LSF administrator for all clusters that are connected to the data manager. LSF
data manager administrators make sure that the dmd daemon is operating smoothly and reconﬁgure LSF data manager as needed.
LSF data manager administrators manage the LSF data manager:
Manage the LSF data manager data transfer queue in the lsb.queues ﬁle
Run the bdata admin reconﬁg command to reconﬁgure LSF data manager
Run the bdata admin shutdown command to shut down LSF data manager
Run the bdata tags command to list or clean intermediate ﬁles that are associated with a tag for users
Conﬁgure the LSF data manager administrators with the ADMINS parameter in the lsf.datamanager ﬁle.
lsf.datamanager ﬁle
The lsf.datamanager ﬁle controls the operation of LSF Data Manager features. Each cluster has one LSF data manager conﬁguration ﬁle, named
lsf.datamanager.cluster_name. The cluster_name sufﬁx is the name of the cluster that is deﬁned in the Cluster section of lsf.shared. The ﬁle is read
by the LSF data management daemon dmd during startup and reconﬁguration.
Data transfer node
A data transfer node, also referred to as an I/O node, is an LSF server host in the cluster that is mounted with direct read/write access to the cluster
staging area. This host can access the source of staged-in data and the destination of staged-out data.
Data transfer job
LSF data manager submits transfer jobs to copy required data ﬁles for stage in or stage out operations. Transfer jobs run on data transfer nodes as
the execution user of the job that triggered the transfer.
Transfer jobs have the following function:
To pre-stage ﬁles that are requested in the bsub –data option from their source location into the staging area cache.
Stage out ﬁles that are requested by the bstage out command from the staging area cache to their remote destination.
Data transfer queue
LSF data manager submits transfer jobs to a transfer queue, which is conﬁgured to accept transfer jobs only.
Data transfer tool command
Transfer jobs run the transfer tool command that is speciﬁed in the FILE_TRANSFER_CMD parameter in the lsf.datamanager ﬁle.
Data staging
A staging area, also known as a data cache, is a managed ﬁle system on an LSF server host or mounted directory that is accessible to the cluster
compute nodes. The staging area stores ﬁles that jobs request for staging in or out. Each staging area must have one LSF data manager instance.
Data staging is the transfer of data to the location where it is used. Input data for a job is staged in in two steps:
1. By copying input data ﬁles from the data source repository to the data staging area cache through a data transfer job.
2. By copying data that is required by an application from the staging area to the job execution host.
Output data that is produced by a job is staged out by copying ﬁles back to a location that the job submitter can use it.
Stage-out operations asynchronously copy job output from the cache area to the data destination that you specify.
Data speciﬁcation ﬁle
A data speciﬁcation ﬁle is a text ﬁle that is used for specifying many data requirement ﬁles for one job.
Each line in a data speciﬁcation ﬁle speciﬁes the name of the path to a source ﬁle to be transferred to the staging area before a job is submitted and
scheduled. The path can point to a ﬁle or a directory.
The following example contains lines for three ﬁles. Each line speciﬁes a host_name:file_path pair:
#@dataspec 
datahost:/proj/userA/input1.dat 
2122    IBM Spectrum LSF

datahost:/proj/userA/input2.dat 
datahost:/proj/userA/input3.dat 
Data tags
A data tag can be created for a job with a data staging requirement with the bstage out command. A tag allows users to transfer ﬁles from the job's
current working directory to the staging area, associate those ﬁles with a chosen name. Data manager commands can report the existence of that tag
if it is queried later.
Data queries
File-based cache query with the bdata cache command displays the job IDs of jobs that request the ﬁle under the REF_JOB column. The REF_JOB
column is not displayed for job-based query in the bdata cache command.
How LSF Data Manager works
Every LSF cluster that shares a staging area also communicates to the same LSF data manager instance. The clusters query the data manager for the
availability of data ﬁles.
If the ﬁles are not in the cache, the LSF data manager stages them and notiﬁes the cluster when a requested data for the job is ready. After ﬁles are
staged, the clusters can retrieve them from the staging area by consulting the data ﬁle information that is stored in the staging area by the LSF data
manager.
Single cluster implementation
 A typical single cluster implementation of LSF Data Manager. consists of a data source, an LSF management host, a data manager host, I/O
hosts, and execution hosts. Each component works together to accomplish the task of staging data and submitting jobs with data
requirements.
LSF multicluster capability implementation
 A typical LSF multicluster capability implementation of LSF Data Manager has a queue conﬁguration that is not a remote-only queue. Each
component works together to accomplish the task of staging data and submitting jobs with data requirements.
Single cluster implementation
A typical single cluster implementation of LSF Data Manager. consists of a data source, an LSF management host, a data manager host, I/O hosts,
and execution hosts. Each component works together to accomplish the task of staging data and submitting jobs with data requirements.
1. A user submits a job by using the bsub command with a requirement for a data ﬁle, including the name of the data source host and the full
path to the required data.
2. The bsub command reads information about the data source host, the ﬁle path, the size of the ﬁle and last modiﬁed time (if available) and
sends that information to the LSF management host along with the job submission data.
3. The job request is received by the mbatchd daemon on the management host, which detects that the job has an input staging requirement.
The main user job is put in a hold state (shown as PEND).
4. LSF sends the data requirement information to the LSF data manager, with a request that the data ﬁle get copied to the staging area.
5. If the data ﬁle was not already staged, LSF data manager requests a transfer job for the required ﬁles. A transfer job is submitted to LSF for
each new ﬁle record that is created for the job.
6. LSF schedules and dispatches the transfer job, and notiﬁes LSF data manager of the success or failure of the transfer job.
7. The transfer job copies ﬁle data from the source repository to the staging area. If the data ﬁle was already staged and in TRANSFERRED status,
a transfer job is not needed.
IBM Spectrum LSF 2123

8. If the transfer job was successful, LSF data manager sets the status of the ﬁle to TRANSFERRED. If the transfer job fails, LSF kills jobs that
require the ﬁle that the transfer job is transferring.
9. The LSF data manager notiﬁes LSF that the data staging step for the job is complete.
10. LSF schedules the user job and dispatches it to the execution node.
11. The running user job ﬁnds where the required data ﬁles are staged, and job execution starts. The LSF data manager daemon (dmd)
determines the location of the staged ﬁle in the cache. The bstage in command in the user job determines the location of the ﬁle in the
execution environment.
LSF multicluster capability implementation
A typical LSF multicluster capability implementation of LSF Data Manager has a queue conﬁguration that is not a remote-only queue. Each
component works together to accomplish the task of staging data and submitting jobs with data requirements.
In a LSF multicluster capability environment, deﬁne, the RemoteDataManagers section in the lsf.datamanager ﬁle and remote data managers are
connected to the local data manager.
1. A user submits a job to the local cluster by using the bsub command with a requirement for a data ﬁle
2. The bsub command reads information about the data source host, the ﬁle path, the size of the ﬁle and last modiﬁed time (if available) and
sends that information to the LSF management host along with the job submission data.
3. The local mbatchd sends the data requirement information to the local LSF data manager, with a request that the data ﬁle get copied to the
local staging area. The data requirement information includes the candidate clusters that the job is eligible to be forwarded to.
If the requested ﬁle does not exist, and the local cluster is a candidate for the job, a transfer job is submitted and the required ﬁles are staged
to the local staging area.
4. If the user did not specify a cluster preference in the job, the data manager queries all remote data managers that are conﬁgured in the
candidate cluster list for the requested ﬁles. The LSF data manager generates a cluster preference for the job.
5. The data manager creates a ﬁle that contains data ﬁle information for the job in its staging area current working directory.
6. After data is staged to the local staging area, the data manager informs LSF that the data for the job is ready in the local cluster so the job can
be scheduled. LSF appends the cluster preference to the job and schedules it normally. If local staging was not needed, this step happens
immediately.
2124    IBM Spectrum LSF