Conﬁgure RemoteDataManagers section only in LSF multicluster capability submission clusters. When the RemoteDataManagers section is
conﬁgured, LSF maintains a connection between the LSF data manager management host in each cluster, and uses this connection to query the
availability of remote ﬁles.
By default, the local cluster can obtain information about all other clusters that are speciﬁed in the lsf.shared ﬁle. The RemoteDataManagers
section limits the clusters that the local cluster can obtain information about.
Every cluster in the lsf.shared ﬁle that has LSF data management features enabled must appear in the list of clusters.
You can conﬁgure only one RemoteDataManagers section in the lsf.datamanager ﬁle. If more than one RemoteDataManagers section exists, only
the ﬁrst section takes effect. Sections beyond the ﬁrst one are ignored. Duplicate cluster names are ignored, and the ﬁrst cluster name in the list is
used.
The bdata connections command reports the connection status of each remote LSF data manager. If the conﬁguration has errors, the corresponding
manager shows as disconnected (disc) in the output of the bdata connections command.
The ﬁrst line consists of the following required keywords:
CLUSTERNAME
SERVERS
PORT
Subsequent lines specify the cluster names, server hosts, and ports for the remote LSF data managers.
Example RemoteDataManagers section format
Begin RemoteDataManagers 
CLUSTERNAME   SERVERS                      PORT 
cluster1      (host11 host12 ... host1n)   1729 
cluster2      (host21 host22 ... host2n)   4104 
clusterM      (hostM1 hostM2 ... hostMn)   13832 
End RemoteDataManagers
RemoteDataManagers parameters
CLUSTERNAME
Specify a list of the clusters that you want the local cluster to recognize as LSF data managers.
SERVERS
The list of servers must correspond to the value of the LSF_DATA_HOSTS parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle of the appropriate cluster.
PORT
The port number for the cluster must correspond to the value of the LSF_DATA_PORT parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle of the appropriate cluster.
Using the IBM Spectrum LSF Resource Connector
Conﬁgure and use IBM Spectrum LSF resource connector.
IBM Spectrum LSF resource connector overview
 The resource connector for IBM Spectrum LSF feature (previously referred to as host factory) enables LSF clusters to borrow resources from
supported resource providers.
Conﬁguring resource providers for LSF resource connector
 Modify resource connector conﬁguration ﬁles after installation to enable resource providers.
Updating LSF conﬁguration for resource connector
 Conﬁgure LSF to enable the resource connector.
View information on the LSF resource connector
 View information on the LSF resource connector by checking the status of the ebrokerd daemon, running the badmin rc subcommand, or by
viewing the log ﬁles.
LSF resource connector conﬁguration reference
 Reference for conﬁguring LSF resource connector.
IBM Spectrum LSF resource connector overview
The resource connector for IBM® Spectrum LSF feature (previously referred to as host factory) enables LSF clusters to borrow resources from
supported resource providers.
LSF resource connector plug-ins support the following resource providers:
2190    IBM Spectrum LSF

IBM Cloud Virtual Servers for VPC Gen 2 (IBM Cloud Gen 2), conﬁgured with the ibmcloudgen2_conﬁg.json and ibmcloudgen2_templates.json
ﬁles. The IBM Cloud provider requires IBM Spectrum LSF Fix Pack 11.
Amazon Web Services (AWS), which is conﬁgured with the awsprov_conﬁg.json and awsprov_templates.json ﬁles. The AWS provider requires
IBM Spectrum LSF Fix Pack 2.
Microsoft Azure, which is conﬁgured with the azureprov_conﬁg.json and azureprov_templates.json ﬁles. The Microsoft Azure provider requires
IBM Spectrum LSF Fix Pack 3.
Google Compute Cloud, conﬁgured with the googleprov_conﬁg.json and googleprov_templates.json ﬁles. The Google Compute provider
requires IBM Spectrum LSF Fix Pack 4.
OpenStack, which is conﬁgured with the osprov_conﬁg.json and osprov_templates.json ﬁles. The OpenStack provider requires IBM Spectrum
LSF Fix Pack 1.
LSF clusters can borrow hosts from a resource provider to satisfy pending workload. The borrowed resources join the LSF cluster as hosts. When the
resources become idle, LSF resource connector returns them to the resource provider.
The resource connector generates requests for extra hosts from the resource provider and dispatches jobs to dynamic hosts that join the LSF cluster.
When the resource provider reclaims the hosts, the resource connector re-queues the jobs that are running on the LSF hosts, shuts down LSF
daemons, and releases the hosts to the provider.
Requirements for conﬁguring the resource connector
The following are requirements for conﬁguring the IBM Spectrum LSF resource connector.
You must have root access to the LSF management host.
Both the LSF management host and the compute nodes (provider instances) must be reachable from each other.
You must be able to restart the LSF cluster.
You must be familiar with the provider's concepts and be able to perform administrative tasks.
The virtual network to be used by the provider's virtual instances must be conﬁgured so that they can communicate with the LSF hosts on-
premise.
You must conﬁgure the provider instances to map users to the LSF cluster submission users. For example, add the submission users to the
provider instance or synchronize the users on the launched provider instances.
Decide how you want LSF to authenticate to the provider to access their services.
Java requirements for LSF management host
The following are Java requirements for the IBM Spectrum LSF management host before conﬁguring the IBM Spectrum LSF resource connector.
Java Runtime Environment (JRE) version 8
How LSF borrows hosts from a resource provider
The following workflow summarizes how your job uses resources that are borrowed from a resource provider:
1. A user submits a job to LSF as normal. The job generates demand, but the cluster doesn't have enough resources to service it, so it must
borrow hosts from an external provider.
2. The mbatchd daemon checks if hosts are already allocated that match the demand, and LSF calculates how many of each template type it
requires to run the job. LSF sends this demand to the resource connector ebrokerd daemon.
The administrator conﬁgures templates representing LSF hosts. Each resource provider has its own template ﬁle that deﬁnes the mapping
between LSF resource demand requests and hosts that the provider allocates to LSF. Each template in the ﬁle represents a set of hosts that
share some attributes, such as the number of CPUs, the amount of available memory, the installed software stack, and operating system
image.
3. Based on the demand from the submitted job, LSF resource connector makes an allocation request to the resource provider.
For example, if the resource provider is IBM Cloud Gen 2, resource connector makes an allocation request to IBM Cloud Gen 2 as the
LSF_Consumer.
4. For IBM Cloud Gen 2 resources, if enough resources are available in the rg_shared resource group, the allocation request succeeds.
5. The ebrokerd daemon monitors the status of the request in the resource provider until it detects that the request succeeds, starts LSF
daemons on the allocated hosts, and notiﬁes LSF that the hosts join the cluster and are ready to use.
6. When the host joins the cluster, the job is dispatched to the host.
7. When there is no more demand for borrowed resources, LSF lets resource connector know and the ebrokerd daemon returns the resources to
the provider.
8. Some resource providers (for example, IBM Cloud Gen 2) can also be conﬁgured to reclaim borrowed resources from LSF when they require
the resources to satisfy their workload demand.
Example of borrowing hosts from IBM Cloud Gen 2
In the following example, the resource provider is IBM Cloud Gen 2:
1. bhosts -a 
HOST_NAME          STATUS     JL/U    MAX  NJOBS  RUN  SSUSP  USUSP  RSV    
IBM Spectrum LSF 2191

lsfmanagement      ok         -       1    1      0    0      0      0 
2. IBM Cloud Gen 2 has a host ibmcloud01 with ncpus=1.
3. Resource connector is conﬁgured to connect to the IBM Cloud Gen 2 cluster.
4. A template is created that provides a numeric attribute ncpus with range [1:1].
5. The bsub command submits a job that requires a single slot.
6. Eventually host ibmcloud01 joins the cluster, and the new job runs.
bhosts -a    
HOST_NAME          STATUS    JL/U    MAX  NJOBS   RUN  SSUSP  USUSP  RSV 
lsfmangemnt        ok        -       1    1       1    0      0      0 
ibmcloud01         ok        -       1    1       1    0      0      0
View the status of provisioned hosts
Use the bhosts -rc or the bhosts -rconly command to see information about resources that are provisioned by LSF resource connector.
The -rc and -rconly options make use of the third-party mosquitto message queue application. LSF resource connector publishes additional provider
host information to displayed by these bhosts options. The mosquitto binary ﬁle is included as part of the LSF distribution.
To use the -rc and -rconly options, LSF resource connector must be enabled with the LSB_RC_EXTERNAL_HOST_FLAG parameter in the lsf.conf ﬁle.
If you use the MQTT message broker that is distributed withLSF, you must conﬁgure the LSF_MQ_BROKER_HOSTS and MQTT_BROKER_HOST
parameters in the lsf.conf ﬁle. The LSF_MQ_BROKER_HOSTS and MQTT_BROKER_HOST parameters must specify the same host name. The
LSF_MQ_BROKER_HOSTS parameter enables LIM to start the mosquitto daemon.
If you use an existing MQTT message broker, you must conﬁgure the MQTT_BROKER_HOST parameter. You can optionally specify an MQTT broker
port with the MQTT_BROKER_PORT parameter.
Use the ps command to check that the MQTT message broker daemon (mosquitto) is installed and running: ps -ef | grep mosquitto.
Conﬁgure the EBROKERD_HOST_CLEAN_DELAY to specify a delay, in minutes, after which the ebrokerd daemon removes information about
relinquished or reclaimed hosts. This parameter allows the bhosts command to get LSF resource connector provider host information for some time
after they are deprovisioned.
Three more columns are shown in the bhosts command host list:
RC_STATUS
LSF resource connector status.
Preprovision_Started
Resource connector started the preprovisioning script for the new host.
Preprovision_Failed
The preprovisioning script returned an error.
Allocated
The host is ready to join the LSF cluster.
Reclaim_Received
A host reclaim request was received from the provider (for example, for an AWS spot instance).
RelinquishReq_Sent
LSF started to relinquish the host.
Relinquished
LSF ﬁnished relinquishing the host.
Deallocated_Sent
LSF sent a return request to the provider.
Postprovision_Started
LSF started the postprovisioning script after the host was returned.
Done
The host life cyle is complete.
PROV_STATUS
Provider status. This status depends the provider. For example, AWS has pending, running, shutting down, terminated, and others. Check
documentation for the provider to understand the status that is displayed.
UPDATED_AT
Time stamp of the latest status change.
For hosts provisioned by resource connector, these columns show appropriate status values and a time stamp. A dash (-) is displayed in these
columns for other hosts in the cluster.
For example,
bhosts -rc 
HOST_NAME              STATUS  JL/U    MAX  NJOBS    RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV  RC_STATUS      PROV_STATUS    
UPDATED_AT 
icgen2host-10-240-0-37 ok       -      1      0      0      0      0      0    Allocated      running        
2017-04-07T12:28:46CDT 
lsf1.aws.              closed   -      1      0      0      0      0      0    -              -              - 
2192    IBM Spectrum LSF