Use the bsub command to submit the Spark application to LSF.
Procedure
1. Use the bsub command to submit the Spark application to LSF through the lsf-spark-submit.sh connector script.
bsub bsub_options lsf-spark-submit.sh spark-submit_options
For example, the following job requests 16 tasks from two hosts, eight tasks on each host, in interactive mode, and speciﬁes hostA as the ﬁrst
execution host (that is, where the driver program starts). In the background, LSF starts the Spark driver and worker using the LSF blaunch
framework.
bsub -m "hostA! others" -n16 -R "span[ptile=8]" -I lsf-spark-submit.sh --class "SimpleApp" target/scala-
2.10/simple-project_2.10-1.0.jar ../myfile.txt
2. To view the job in the Spark GUI, navigate to the URL of the ﬁrst execution host using a web browser.
http://ﬁrst_execution_hostname:port_number
where ﬁrst_execution_hostname is the host name of the ﬁrst execution host and port_number is the port number set using the
SPARK_MASTER_PORT environment variable in the lsf-spark-submit.sh connector script ﬁle.
For example, http://hostA:7077
Run a Spark shell on LSF
Use the bsub -I command to run the Spark shell as an interactive job.
Procedure
1. Use the bsub -I command to submit the lsf-spark-shell.sh connector script to LSF as an interactive job.
bsub -I bsub_options lsf-spark-shell.sh
For example,
bsub -I -m "hostA! others" -R "span[ptile=4]" -n 8 lsf-spark-shell.sh
This command launches the Spark shell, which you can use to specify the Spark environment and run Spark commands.
2. To view the job in the Spark GUI, navigate to the URL of the ﬁrst execution host using a web browser.
http://ﬁrst_execution_hostname:port_number
where ﬁrst_execution_hostname is the host name of the ﬁrst execution host and port_number is the port number set using the
SPARK_MASTER_PORT environment variable in the lsf-spark-shell.sh connector script ﬁle.
For example, http://hostA:7077
IBM Spectrum LSF with Apache Hadoop
Conﬁgure and use IBM Spectrum LSF with Apache Hadoop applications.
About LSF with Apache Hadoop
 The IBM Spectrum LSF integration with Apache Hadoop provides a connector script that allows users to submit Hadoop applications as
regular LSF jobs.
Conﬁgure the Apache Hadoop integration
 Deploy Apache Hadoop and prepare LSF for the integration package
Run a Hadoop application on LSF
 Use the bsub command to submit the Hadoop application to LSF.
About LSF with Apache Hadoop
The IBM® Spectrum LSF integration with Apache Hadoop provides a connector script that allows users to submit Hadoop applications as regular LSF
jobs.
Apache Hadoop ("Hadoop") is a framework for large-scale distributed data storage and processing on computer clusters that uses the Hadoop
Distributed File System ("HDFS") for the data storage and MapReduce programming model for the data processing. Since MapReduce workloads
2332    IBM Spectrum LSF

might only represent a small fraction of overall workload, but typically requires their own standalone environment, MapReduce is difﬁcult to support
within traditional HPC clusters. However, HPC clusters typically use parallel ﬁle systems that are sufﬁcient for initial MapReduce workloads, so you
can run MapReduce workloads as regular parallel jobs running in an HPC cluster environment. Use the IBM Spectrum LSF integration with Apache
Hadoop to submit Hadoop MapReduce workloads as regular LSF parallel jobs.
To run your Hadoop application through LSF, submit it as an LSF job. Once the LSF job starts to run, the Hadoop connector script (lsfhadoop.sh)
automatically provisions an open source Hadoop cluster within LSF allocated resources, then submits actual MapReduce workloads into this Hadoop
cluster. Since each LSF Hadoop job has its own resource (cluster), the integration provides a multi-tenancy environment to allow multiple users to
share the common pool of HPC cluster resources. LSF is able to collect resource usage of MapReduce workloads as normal LSF parallel jobs and has
full control of the job life cycle. After the job is complete, LSF shuts down the Hadoop cluster.
By default, the Apache Hadoop integration conﬁgures the Hadoop cluster with direct access to shared ﬁle systems and does not require HDFS. This
allows you to use existing ﬁle systems in your HPC cluster without having to immediately invest in a new ﬁle system. Through the existing shared ﬁle
system, data can be stored in common share locations, which avoids the typical data stage-in and stage-out steps with HDFS.
Conﬁgure the Apache Hadoop integration
Deploy Apache Hadoop and prepare LSF for the integration package
Before you begin
The Apache Hadoop integration supports the following platforms:
x86_64
ppc64
ppc64le
Procedure
1. Download and deploy Apache Hadoop.
The latest version is available from the ofﬁcial Apache Hadoop site: http://hadoop.apache.org/releases
This integration supports Hadoop, Versions 1 and 2, and is tested on Open Source Hadoop, Versions 1.2.1 and 2.7.2; however, this integration
should also work with other versions and other Hadoop distributions.
Note: You do not need to conﬁgure Apache Hadoop after installation. The Hadoop connector scripts automatically conﬁgure Apache Hadoop
for you.
2. Set the $HADOOP_HOME environment variable as the ﬁle path to the Hadoop installation directory.
If you do not set the $HADOOP_HOME environment before using the integration, you must run the lsfhadoop.sh connector script with the --
hadoop-dir option to specify the ﬁle path to the Hadoop installation directory.
3. Set the $JAVA_HOME environment variable as the ﬁle path to the Java runtime installation directory.
If you do not set the $JAVA_HOME environment before using the integration, you must run the lsfhadoop.sh connector script with the --java-
home option to specify the ﬁle path to the Hadoop installation directory.
Note: Running the --java-home option allows you to overwrite the value of the $JAVA_HOME environment variable on the command line. For
more details, refer to Run a Hadoop application on LSF.
What to do next
You must ensure that the $HADOOP_HOME and $JAVA_HOME directories are accessible to each LSF server host.
You can overwrite the $HADOOP_HOME and $JAVA_HOME environment variables at job submission time by using the --hadoop-dir and --
java-home options with lsfhadoop.sh. For more details, refer to Run a Hadoop application on LSF.
Run a Hadoop application on LSF
Use the bsub command to submit the Hadoop application to LSF.
Before you begin
You must have a Hadoop application compiled and ready to run as a JAR ﬁle.
Procedure
IBM Spectrum LSF 2333