IBM Spectrum LSF accounting ﬁle management
LSF uses accounting ﬁles to track resource allocation and usage for all ﬁnished jobs. This is the primary purpose of the lsb.acct ﬁle.
Additional conﬁguration settings
This topic describes additional conﬁguration settings that you can use as an example for your own cluster. Some of the following parameters
are explicitly set to the default value, but you can edit these to suit your own cluster.
Allocating CPUs as blocks for parallel jobs
Parallel jobs always ask for more than one CPU to run. Some jobs can run faster if the assigned CPUs can be allocated as blocks.
Cleaning up IBM Spectrum LSF parallel job execution problems
The LSF distributed application integration framework blaunch offers full control of parallel jobs running across multiple execution hosts.
Conﬁguring IBM Aspera as a data transfer tool
IBM Aspera is a data transfer tool that makes efﬁcient, policy-based use of network bandwidth in high latency networks.
Customizing output format and reducing network trafﬁc for IBM Spectrum LSF job queries
The default bjobs command output provides basic job information. When you need additional job information, you might prefer to have the job
output displayed line by line. Controlling the format of bjobs output can also make the output easily parsed by scripts and also reduce network
trafﬁc by transferring only the required information from mbatchd to the bjobs command.
Deﬁning external host-based resources in IBM Spectrum LSF
This article describes how to deﬁne site-speciﬁc external resources on hosts in the cluster for scheduling purposes.
Enforcing IBM Spectrum LSF job memory and swap with Linux cgroups
Enable cgroup memory and swap enforcement in LSF.
Applying job access control in IBM Spectrum LSF to protect information privacy
The LSF access control level (ACL) feature supports different levels of access control in job information queries.
IBM Spectrum LSF job directories
LSF uses different types of directories for jobs to use during execution.
Using IBM Spectrum LSF with Andrew File System (AFS)
Learn how LSF integrates with Andrew File System (AFS) so you can conﬁgure LSF to suit your needs.
Maintaining cluster performance under high query load
LSF provides basic performance metrics (badmin perfmon), which samples three major query operations (bjobs, bhosts, and bqueues). LSF
also provides the badmin diagnose -c query command option to trace query sources for further troubleshooting.
Managing floating software licenses in LSF
Typically, a pool of floating software licenses is represented by numeric resources in LSF. Every job that requires licenses must include the
license requirement in its rusage expression to ensure that enough licenses are free for the job at the time that the job is dispatched.
Maintaining cluster performance under high query load
Optimize LSF job processing when jobs have a long run time in LSF when CPU frequency governors are enabled, but run faster when executed
directly on the machine.
Operating system partitioning and virtualization on Oracle Solaris and IBM AIX
This describes how LSF works in an OS partitioning and virtualization environment, focusing on Oracle Solaris containers and IBM AIX
partitions.
Performance metrics for mbatchd
LSF mbatchd performance metrics help administrators to identify the root causes of mbatchd performance issues when they occur, so that
administrators can take appropriate corrective actions. These performance metrics are particularly useful when the cause of issue is related to
the cluster environment; for example, the performance of shared storage or a network connection.
Placing jobs based on available job slots of hosts
LSF has built-in host-based resource slots to support the placement of jobs based on available job slots. Learn how to conﬁgure and use the
slots resource with existing LSF resource requirements according to a packing or spreading policy.
Locating the sha1 checksum after downloading the IBM Spectrum LSF installers
Use the sha1 executable ﬁle to verify the LSF installation ﬁles.
Tracking job dependencies in IBM Spectrum LSF
Use LSF job dependencies to specify the job execution flow during job submission.
Using compute units to have IBM Spectrum LSF consider cluster topology when scheduling
Use the LSF compute unit (CU) feature to have LSF consider a tree-like network topology when scheduling jobs.
Using lsmake to accelerate building Android source code
The LSF lsmake tool is a parallel GNU make that is tightly integrated with LSF.
Using NVIDIA DGX systems with IBM Spectrum LSF
The following guide is an example of how to use LSF with GPU resources on NVIDIA DGX systems.
Using ssh X11 forwarding with IBM Spectrum LSF
For X-enabled applications to function as desired, the X connection must be tunneled over ssh, which is the secure method.
Using the IBM Spectrum LSF API Python wrapper
The Python wrapper for IBM® Spectrum LSF APIs allows users to call the LSF APIs from Python. You create a Python wrapper using the
Simpliﬁed Wrapper and Interface Generator (SWIG), which is the tool used for interfacing the LSF C APIs and Python.
IBM® Spectrum LSF accounting ﬁle management
LSF uses accounting ﬁles to track resource allocation and usage for all ﬁnished jobs. This is the primary purpose of the lsb.acct ﬁle.
This accounting ﬁle is a plain text ﬁle with one job record per line. Each job record includes job submission options, allocation information, start time,
end time and resource usage. By default, there is only one lsb.acct accounting ﬁle per cluster, located in the LSF working directory, which is deﬁned
by ${LSB_SHAREDIR}/<cluster_name>/logdir.
IBM Spectrum LSF 2393

LSF logs all ﬁnished job records to lsb.acct. By default, no automatic ﬁle archiving or rollover mechanism enabled, The lsb.acct ﬁle can grow very
large, taking up space in the LSF working directory and affecting the performance of commands that query the accounting ﬁle (bacct, for instance).
LSF offers several features to help manage account ﬁles automatically, including automatic accounting ﬁle archiving and automatic deletion of old
accounting ﬁles.
Automatic accounting ﬁle archiving
Automatic accounting ﬁle archiving can be triggered by several conditions: time of day, size of the accounting ﬁle, and age of accounting ﬁles. All of
these are conﬁgured through parameters in lsb.params.
ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE=<days> deﬁnes an archiving interval. LSF archives the current accounting ﬁle if the length of time from its creation date
exceeds the speciﬁed number of days.
ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE=<kilobytes> deﬁnes an accounting ﬁle size threshold. LSF archives the current accounting ﬁle if its size exceeds the
speciﬁed number of kilobytes.
ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME=<hh:mm> deﬁnes a time of day for LSF to automatically archive the current accounting ﬁle.
ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE and ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME are mutually exclusive, since ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE is conﬁgured in days, while
ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME sets a speciﬁc time of day. If ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME is deﬁned, ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE is ignored. ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE can
coexist with the other two parameters. Run badmin reconﬁg after you change any of the parameters.
When LSF archives the accounting ﬁle, it saves the old accounting ﬁle as lsb.acct.n, where n is an index number of archived ﬁles. The bigger the index
number, the older the archived ﬁle. lsb.acct.1 always represents the latest archived accounting ﬁle.
Automatic deletion of old accounting ﬁles
Conﬁgure MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE in lsb.params to enable automatic deletion of archived accounting ﬁles. Automatic ﬁle deletion controls the
total number of archived ﬁles, and prevents LSF from archiving accounting ﬁles indeﬁnitely. MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE deﬁnes the maximum
number of archived ﬁles under the LSF working directory. When the total number of archived ﬁles reaches the conﬁgured threshold, LSF
automatically removes the oldest archived ﬁle. With this feature, you can control the total number of accounting archives stored under the working
directory and make sure accounting ﬁles don't consume too much disk space.
Guidelines and best practices for automatic archiving
In a real production environment, you need to choose parameters and values based on the speciﬁc needs of your site. Here are some general
guidance and best practices:
The size of job ﬁnish records can vary depending on job characteristics, ranging from a few hundred bytes to tens of thousands of bytes. By
default, the bacct command only reads the current lsb.acct ﬁle, and scans all accounting records in the accounting ﬁle to generate its output.
The size and the total number of records in lsb.acct affects the performance of bacct. For example, an accounting ﬁle with 400,000 job ﬁnish
records could be as large as 1 GB. bacct may take as much as 1 minute to complete. To ensure good performance of bacct, the recommended
setting for ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE is 500 MB (500,000 KB).
If your cluster runs a large number of jobs on a daily basis (say, a million or more), use ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME, so it won't accumulate too many
job records in the current accounting ﬁle. Set ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME to midnight, so that accounting ﬁle archiving does not affect user queries.
If the daily job throughput of your cluster is within a few thousands or even tens of thousands of jobs, use ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE. Base the
value on the rough total number of job ﬁnish records you want to keep in the accounting ﬁle. You need to balance bacct command
performance and the number of days of records you want to maintain. For instance, if cluster daily throughput is 50,000 jobs, and you want to
maintain 1 month of job ﬁnish records in current accounting ﬁle, total number of ﬁnish records in current accounting ﬁle will be around 1.5
million. In this case, the bacct command could take several minutes to complete.
Set MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE based on the total number of archives you plan to maintain in the working directory. Some of bacct command
options, like -C, -D, or -S, make bacct search through the entire accounting ﬁle archive. When these options are used, bacct runs slower the
more archives you keep in the directory. Furthermore, since LSF needs to rename archive ﬁles during archiving process, keeping a large
number of archives can also impact user interaction. You should consider these performance implications when setting a reasonable value
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE.
Examples
Site A has a high throughput cluster, and daily throughput reaches 800,000 jobs. The administrator wants to maintain current accounting ﬁles to
reflect only the current day's information and to maintain accounting archives for 10 days. Here is the conﬁguration:
ACCT_ARCHIVE_TIME=23:00 
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=10
Site B runs lots of parallel workload but runs less than 10,000 jobs daily. The administrator wants to maintain 1 month of accounting records. Each
accounting ﬁle should be kept within 500 MB in size, and archived for 2 years. Here is the conﬁguration:
ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE=30 
ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE=500000 
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=24
2394    IBM Spectrum LSF