After starting up, LSF registers itself to LSF License Scheduler, gets license type resources, and adds them to its resources table as dynamic
numeric shared resources. Use the bhosts –s command to show these resources.
admin@server1: bhosts -s 
RESOURCE                 TOTAL       RESERVED       LOCATION 
lic3                         2            0.0 
                                                     server1 
                                                     server2
4. Submit a job by specifying lic3 in the job rusage expression.
The job checks out the license from the license server by its actual name.
bsub –R "rusage[lic3=1]" job_script 
... 
admin@server1: bhosts -s 
RESOURCE                 TOTAL       RESERVED       LOCATION 
lic3                         1            1 
                                                    server1 
                                                    server2
5. Use the LSF License Scheduler command blstat to check license usage details.
admin@server1: blstat 
FEATURE: lic3@ myCluster 
 SERVICE_DOMAIN: LanServer 
 TOTAL_TOKENS: 2    TOTAL_ALLOC: 2    TOTAL_USE: 1    OTHERS: 0 
 CLUSTER SHARE ALLOC TARGET INUSE RESERVE OVER PEAK BUFFER FREE  DEMAND 
myCluster  100.0%  2     2      1      0       0     1     0      1      0
6. Use the LSF License Scheduler command blusers -J to check license usage of the job.
admin@server1: blusers -J 
JOBID  USER   HOST    PROJECT   CLUSTER    START_TIME 
1      admin  server1 default   myCluster  Aug 27 02:49:11 
RESOURCE   RUSAGE  SERVICE_DOMAIN    INUSE    EFFECTIVE_PROJECT 
lic3       1       LanServer         1        default
What to do next
LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition limits license use of jobs to cluster mode features, which are distributed to a single cluster with one service
domain per license feature. It is not intended to apply policies on how licenses are shared between clusters or projects. If you have more advanced
license management requirements, you can upgrade to LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition, which has full LSF License Scheduler functionality,
including support for all modes (cluster mode and project mode), sharing licenses across multiple clusters, sharing licenses between project teams
and departments around the globe, scheduling licenses within extremely large clusters, license preemption across departments, feature groups,
project groups, multiple service domains per license, and taskman jobs. For details about the features of LSF License Scheduler Standard Edition,
see IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler.
Related concepts
IBM Spectrum LSF License Scheduler
Install License Scheduler
Conﬁgure LSF License Scheduler Basic Edition
Maintaining cluster performance under high query load
Optimize LSF job processing when jobs have a long run time in LSF when CPU frequency governors are enabled, but run faster when executed
directly on the machine.
About this task
Some CPU frequency governors set the processor clock speed lower for LSF jobs, but faster for the applications executed on the machine directly.
This occurs because some governors do not consider processes that call nice() when adjusting for a faster clock speed. However, the current default
behavior in LSF is that all jobs call nice(). Therefore, LSF jobs will have a longer run time than jobs that run directly on the machine. For example, a
CPU-intensive application may run for six days as a job in LSF, but may run for only three days directly on the host.
The following CPU frequency governors may not consider nice() processes:
Ondemand and Conservative: These governors have a feature to count nice() processes when considering clock speed adjustments. The sysfs
ﬁle accessible parameter ignore_nice_load accepts a value of 0 or 1. When set to 0 (the default), all processes are counted towards the CPU
utilization value. When set to 1, the processes that are run with a NICE value will not count in the overall usage calculation and are ignored.
Userspace: Using cpuspeed as an example, you can disable the feature that prevents nice() processes from increasing CPU speed. Use
cpuspeed -n to disable the feature and choose do not treat niced programs as idle time. Check related Userspace documentation for details.
IBM Spectrum LSF 2417