By default, the LSF queues template includes NICE values for each queue. The NICE value is set for the job on execution hosts by calling nice() for all
jobs. LSF jobs will not increase CPU frequency if the CPU frequency conﬁguration is set to ignore nice() processes. In this case, LSF jobs will run for a
longer time and will not use the full CPU capacity of the host.
You can optimize LSF job processing for the following scenarios:
Procedure
For high performance on job throughput.
1. Do not allow nice() jobs in the queue.
Remove NICE in queue conﬁguration. LSF jobs will run as common processes on the execution hosts. They will have the same impact to
CPU frequency governors even if conﬁgured to ignore nice() jobs.
2. Let CPU frequency governors consider nice() jobs for scaling processor clock speed.
The ignore_nice_load parameter is located in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpuX/cpufreq/ for Ondemand and Conservative frequency
governors. Set ignore_nice_load to 0 to have nice() jobs have the same scaling as non-nice() jobs.
For third party Userspace governors, such as cpuspeed, you can use cpuspeed –n to make nice() jobs have the same scaling as non-
nice() jobs.
For power consumption.
1. Set CPU frequency governors to ignore nice() jobs and allow LSF jobs to become nice() by conﬁguring the NICE value in related queues.
2. To balance performance with power saving by CPU frequency, you should also conﬁgure automatic CPU frequency selection. For more
information, see Automatic CPU frequency selection
Related information
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cpu-freq/governors.txt
http://www.carlthompson.net/Software/CPUSpeed
Operating system partitioning and virtualization on Oracle Solaris and IBM
AIX
This describes how LSF works in an OS partitioning and virtualization environment, focusing on Oracle Solaris containers and IBM AIX partitions.
Summary
Solaris
In a non-global Solaris container, use a dedicated ﬁxed number of CPUs.
AIX
On IBM AIX, use logical partitions (LPARs) and dynamic logical partitions (DLPARs) with dedicated processors. Note the following points:
With LPARs, DLPARs, and micropartitions, all LSF daemons can run, and LSF can dispatch and run jobs on the partitions just as on a
physical host.
LSF cannot run on WPARs.
Speciﬁc to CPU utilization reporting,
1. In micro-partitions with shared processors (capped or uncapped), LSF reports CPU utilization correctly. The CPU utilization is
calibrated relative to the entitled capacity of the node.
2. On LPARs and DLPARs with dedicated processors, LSF works well and reports CPU utilization correctly. LSF also reports number
of processors correctly after CPU allocation is changed dynamically on DLPARs.
Solaris 10 containers
In a global zone of Solaris 10, LSF works well without any known issues.
In a non-global zone of Solaris 10, LSF has the following known limitations:
Privileges
The root user in non-global zones of the Solaris container does not have all the privileges that the root user in a global zone has. For LSF to
work in a non-global zone, you must ensure that all required privileges are conﬁgured for the root user. For example, make sure that that
proc_priocntl privilege is assigned to the root user of the non-global zone by using the zonecfg command.
Resource management
When all required privileges are available for the root user, all LSF daemons can run and LSF is able to dispatch and run jobs on a non-global
zone like on a physical host. However, the number of CPUs and CPU utilization that is detected by LSF might not be correct for a non-global
zone, depending on what resource management mechanism is conﬁgured. This might interfere with LSF CPU-based scheduling.
2418    IBM Spectrum LSF

The resource management features that are provided by Solaris 10 include a combination of Fair Share Scheduler, CPU caps, dedicated CPUs,
and resource pools.
In a non-global Solaris container, use a dedicated ﬁxed number of CPUs.
Dedicated CPUs
The dedicated-cpu resource speciﬁes that a subset of the system's processors are be dedicated to a non-global zone while it is running.
When the zone boots, the system dynamically creates a temporary pool for use while the zone is running. You can specify a ﬁxed number of
CPUs or a range, such as 2-4 CPUs, for the number of dedicated CPUs.
When dedicated CPUs are conﬁgured with a ﬁxed number of CPUs (that is, the minimum number of CPUs is equal to the maximum), LSF works
well and correctly reports number of CPUs and CPU usage in the non-global container.
If a range is speciﬁed for the number of CPUs (that is, the minimum number of CPUs does not equal the maximum), LSF does not accurately
report the number of CPUs and CPU usage when CPUs are added or removed from the container.
Capped CPUs
The capped-cpu resource provides an absolute ﬁne-grained limit (up to 2 decimal points) on the amount of CPU resources that can be
consumed by a zone.
CPU capping for Solaris containers, by design, makes all CPUs in the global zone visible to each of the individual containers. LSF detects the
number of CPUs for the container to be the total number of CPUs on the physical host. The CPU utilization that LSF reports is always
consistent with mpstat output, which is the host/global-level metric for CPU-capped Solaris containers. No Solaris commands are available
that show the CPU utilization speciﬁc to a single container when CPU capping is in effect.
For example, a physical host has 2 CPUs and there are two Solaris containers (z1 and z2) with CPU capping of 0.8 each. If z1 has a job running
that uses up all of the CPUs available for this container (0.8), and z2 does not have any jobs running, the CPU utilization seen from both z1 and
z2 is host level, 40%. This can be obtained from mpstat output on z1 and z2, and LSF reports the same number. In this case, if everything
else is equal, LSF has an equal probability of dispatching new jobs to z1 and z2, even though z1 has no more capacity to run more jobs and z2
has the full capacity. This can be mitigated by the job slots conﬁgured for z1 and z2. For example, if both of them are manually conﬁgured with
1 job slot, since the job slot on z1 is used and the one on z2 is available, LSF dispatches the new job to z2. However, in general, CPU-based
scheduling in LSF does not work in this environment. Do not use CPU capping for Solaris containers with LSF because they are conflicting
workload management tools.
Fair Share Scheduler
Oracle Solaris Fair Share Scheduler can be used to control the allocation of available CPU resources among zones, based on their importance.
This importance is expressed by the number of shares of CPU resources that is assigned to each zone.
When Fair Share Scheduler is conﬁgured, the case is similar to capped CPUs for LSF. All CPUs are visible to the sharing zones and global-level
CPU utilization is reported in the zones. Therefore, CPU-based scheduling for LSF does not work in this environment.
Resource pool
Resource pools can be conﬁgured to include a processor set with an optional scheduling class. Dynamic resource pools provide a mechanism
for dynamically adjusting each pool's resource allocation in response to system events and application load changes. A zone can then be
associated with a conﬁgured resource pool.
Though not tested, if a non-global zone is associated with a static resource pool where the processor set has ﬁxed number of CPUs, LSF is
expected to work well in this zone. In all other cases, CPU-based scheduling for LSF might not work well.
AIX partitions
There are several types of AIX partitions.
Logical partition (LPAR)
Logical partitions are introduced with AIX 5.1 and POWER4 technology. Multiple operating systems including AIX and Linux can run in
separate partitions on the same system without interference. However, a reboot is required to move resources between LPARs.
Dynamic logical partition (DLPAR)
Dynamic logical partitions are introduced in AIX 5.2. More system flexibility is achieved by being able to move CPUs, I/O adapters and memory
dynamically without rebooting the LPARs.
Micropartition
Micropartitions are introduced in AIX 5.3. Micro-Partitioning maps virtual processors to physical processors and the virtual processors are
assigned to the partitions instead of the physical processors. With IBM eServer p5 servers, you can choose the following types of partitions:
Dedicated processor partition: the entire processor is assigned to a particular logical partition.
Shared processor partition: the physical processors are virtualized and then assigned to partitions. Sharing mode can be capped or
uncapped.
Workload partition (WPAR)
Workload partitions are introduced in AIX 6.1. WPAR is a purely software partitioning solution that is provided by the operating system. WPAR
provides a solution for partitioning one AIX operating instance in multiple environments, each environment being a WPAR. WPARs can be
created within multiple AIX instances of the same physical server, whether they execute in dedicated LPARs or micropartitions. A powerful
IBM Spectrum LSF 2419