Other lsmake options
This section lists other lsmake options that are related to large build workload. For complete lsmake command usage, refer to lsmake.
-a seconds
On multiple hosts, the shared ﬁle system latency can prevent new ﬁles from being accessed on another host immediately. This option sets a
delay to allow commands in a target to ﬁnish, and commands in a dependent target to wait the speciﬁed time before starting on a different
host. By default, the delay is 1 second. Slower ﬁle systems require a longer delay. If the dependent target's commands start on the same
execution host, there is no delay. If retries are enabled with -x, the interval between retries also depends on the delay time.
-E
Sets the environment variables for every task sent remotely. This option can introduce extra overhead, but this is necessary when make ﬁles
change or override the environment variables they inherit at startup.
-u
Creates the data ﬁle lsmake.dat and updates it each second, tracking the number of tasks running over time. This is useful if you want to
export the data to third-party charting applications.
-x num_retries
If the command fails, retries the command the speciﬁed number of times (for example, if the number of retries is 1, the command is
attempted twice before exiting). This is useful to compensate for ﬁle system latency and minor errors. The interval between retries increases
exponentially with each retry attempt. The time between the initial, failed attempt and the ﬁrst retry is equal to 1 second by default, or equal
to the buffer time speciﬁed by -a. For subsequent attempts, the interval between attempts is doubled each time.
-y
Displays summary information after the job is done.
--no-block-shell-mode
Performs child shell tasks without blocking. Without this parameter, blocking mode is used. You should use this option when building Android
code.
Note: In lsmake, the -R option has different meaning from gmake. In lsmake, -R speciﬁes resource requirements. In gmake, -R disables the built-in
variable settings. So if your make ﬁle uses –R, change it to the long format option --no-builtin-variables, when building with lsmake.
Using NVIDIA DGX systems with IBM Spectrum LSF
The following guide is an example of how to use LSF with GPU resources on NVIDIA DGX systems.
About this task
The guide for using IBM® Spectrum LSF with NVIDIA DGX systems is available in the IBM Business Analytics Community.
Related concepts
GPU resources
Using ssh X11 forwarding with IBM® Spectrum LSF
For X-enabled applications to function as desired, the X connection must be tunneled over ssh, which is the secure method.
Before you begin
Check the following:
ssh is installed on all LSF hosts (both submission and execution hosts).
The client desktop connects to the LSF host with ssh X11 forwarding enabled.
The X Server is installed on the local desktop host.
Both local desktop hosts and the LSF submission hosts are conﬁgured properly for ssh X11 forwarding.
ssh X11 forwarding works outside LSF, which means that when you use ssh to log in to the submission host from the display host, and use ssh
-X to launch an X application to any execution host in the cluster, you should see the X application is displayed on the display host.
The user’s $HOME/.cshrc, $HOME/.proﬁle, and the user’s job script do not attempt to set the DISPLAYenvironment variable.
About this task
On X11 (X Window System), an X-enabled client application can run on one host while its GUI displays on another host, typically in the terminal on
which the user is logged in.
IBM Spectrum LSF 2429